<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="crt_components">
  <title>Components for Capacity Reporting</title>
  <body>
    <section id="components">
      <p id="monasca_transform"><b>Monasca Transform: Data Aggregation Reporting</b></p>
      <p>Monasca-transform is a new component which provides mechanism to aggregate or transform
        metrics and publish new aggregated metrics to Monasca.</p>
      <p>Monasca Transform is a data driven Apache Spark based data aggregation engine which
        collects, groups and aggregates existing individual Monasca metrics according to business
        requirements and publishes new transformed (derived) metrics to the Monasca Kafka queue. </p>
      <p>Since the new transformed metrics are published as any other metric in Monasca, alarms can
        be set and triggered on the transformed metric, just like any other metric. </p>
 
      
      <p id="object_storage"><b>Object Storage and Compute Capacity Summary Ops Console UI</b></p>
      <p>A new "Capacity Summary" tab for Compute and Object Storage will displays all the
        aggregated metrics under the "Compute" and "Object Storage" sections. </p>
      <p>Ops Console UI makes calls to Monasca API to retrieve and display various tiles and graphs
        on Capacity Summary tab in Compute and Object Storage Summary UI pages. </p>
      
      <p id="persist"><b>Persist new metrics and Trigger Alarms</b></p>
      <p>New aggregated metrics will be published to Monasca's Kafka queue and will be ingested 
        by monasca-persister. If thresholds and alarms have been set on the aggregated metrics, 
        Monasca will generate and trigger alarms as it currently does with any other metric. 
        No new/additional change is expected with persisting of new aggregated metrics or 
        setting threshold/alarms.
      </p>
      

    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
