<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_j4d_c1c_lt">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 2.0: RN</title>
  <body>
    <!--Needs Edit-->
    <p>The following table list a high level overview of the OpenStack projects/services which are
      included in <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> and their status. Only official upstream OpenStack
      projects are included, not non-OpenStack add-ons that originate elsewhere. <note>If the
        service is not listed in the table then it is not present in <keyword keyref="kw-hos"
        />.</note></p>
    <p>
      <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0*" id="simpletable_q2l_d1c_lt">
        <strow>
          <stentry>Service Name</stentry>
          <stentry>Status in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-20"/></stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Barbican</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Included</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Ceilometer</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Cinder</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Designate</stentry>
          <stentry>In-Cloud Service (Installed Separately)</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Glance</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Heat</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Horizon</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Ironic</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Included</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Keystone</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Magnum</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Included</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Manila</stentry>
          <stentry>Not Included</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Monasca</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-FWaaS</stentry>
          <stentry>non-core</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-LBaaS v1</stentry>
          <stentry>Not recommended</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-LBaaS v2</stentry>
          <stentry>non-core</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-Octavia</stentry>
          <stentry>non-core (TBC)</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Neutron-VPNaaS</stentry>
          <stentry>non-core</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Nova</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Swift</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>Tempest</stentry>
          <stentry>GA</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </p>
    <p/>
    <section>
      <title>Relation of <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Services with OpenStack stable/kilo</title>
      <p>The general policy for <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/> is that each service is kept
        up to date versus upstream OpenStack stable/kilo.</p>
    </section>
    <p> Automated jobs run nightly to mirror upstream OpenStack stable/kilo down to HPE Helion
      OpenStack's internal code mirror so, unless the sync job fails, each service should be up to
      date. The level of drift between upstream OpenStack stable/kilo and what is included in the
        <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/> build is summarised here. This is automated output
      from all the OpenStack repos included in the <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> daily builds. </p>
    <p>Note that Ceilometer, Nova, Horizon, Keystone and Cinder have >2 local patches.The detailed
      list of all missing patches and all local patches is here. </p>
    <p>OpenStack Kilo Stable Patch Release Schedule</p>
    <p>The schedule for patch releases for OpenStack Kilo is at Planned stable/kilo releases (9
      months). Note that 2015.1.1 released in July and 2015.1.2 is due in mid-Sept. What 'version'
      of OpenStack Kilo will <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/> ship with?As per above, <keyword
        keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/> is built from code which is sync'd nightly with upstream
      OpenStack stable/kilo. <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/> will therefore ship with the
      latest Kilo patches as of the final build of <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/>. In other
      words, the <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-20"/> plan is that it will be more up to date than
      the 2015.1.2 "Kilo patch release".</p>
    <p/>
  </body>
</topic>
