<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3431">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1 and 1.1.1: Glossary</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HPE Helion Openstack 1.1: Glossary</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Paul F"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/ceph/1.1commercial.ceph-glossary.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/ceph-glossary/--></p>
<p>The following terms are common to Ceph. Ceph is a technology that integrates object, block, and file storage. It is integrated into HPE Helion OpenStack 1.1 and 1.1.1 cloud environments.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p><b>Cephx</b> - The Ceph authentication protocol. Cephx operates like Kerberos, and it has no
          single point of failure.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph Stack</b> - A collection of two or more components of Ceph.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph Node [ Node, Host ]</b> - Any single machine or server in a Ceph System.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Cluster Map</b> - The set of maps comprising the monitor map, OSD map, PG map, MDS map and
          CRUSH map.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph Block Storage </b>- The block storage "product," service or capabilities when used in
          conjunction with librbd, a hypervisor such as QEMU or Xen, and a hypervisor abstraction
          layer such as libvirt.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph OSD</b> - The Ceph OSD software, which interacts with a logical disk(OSD). Sometimes,
          Ceph users use the term "OSD" to refer to "Ceph OSD Daemon", though the proper term is
          "Ceph OSD".</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph Object Gateway [ RADOS Gateway, RGW ]</b> - The S3/Swift gateway component of Ceph.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph Metadata Serve</b>r - MDS - The Ceph metadata software.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph Client </b>- The collection of Ceph components which can access a Ceph Storage Cluster.
          These include the Ceph Object Gateway, the Ceph Block Device, the Ceph Filesystem, and
          their corresponding libraries, kernel modules, and FUSEs.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph Kernel Modules</b> - The collection of kernel modules which can be used to interact with
          the Ceph System (e.g,. ceph.ko, rbd.ko).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Ceph Client Libraries</b> - The collection of libraries that can be used to interact with
          components of the Ceph System.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>CRUSH</b> - Controlled Replication Under Scalable Hashing. The algorithm Ceph uses to compute
          object storage locations.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Epoch</b> - Ceph maintains a history of each state change in the Ceph Monitors, Ceph OSD
          Daemons, and PGs. Each version of cluster element state is called an "epoch."</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Federated Storage</b> - A collection of autonomous storage resources with centralized
          management that provides rules about how data is stored, managed, and moved through the
          cluster. Multiple storage systems are combined and managed as a single storage pool.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>HDN</b> - <xref href="https://helion.hpwsportal.com" scope="external" format="html">Helion
            Developer Network</xref>; a location where additional files or products can be
          downloaded.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Object Storage</b> - A storage model focusing on data objects instead of file systems or disk
          blocks; objects have key/value pairs of metadata associated with them to give the data
          context. Typically accessed by a REST API, designed for massive scale, and using a wide,
          flat namespace.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>PGs</b> - Placement Group. A grouping of objects on an OSD; pools contain a number of PGs and
          many PGs can map to an OSD.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>Pools</b> - Logical partitions for storing objects. Pools set ownership/access to objects, the
          number of object replicas, the number of placement groups, and the CRUSH rule set to
          use.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>RADOS</b> - A Reliable, Autonomic Distributed Object Store. This is the core set of storage
          software that stores the user's data in a Ceph Cluster (MON+OSD).</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>RBD</b> - The block storage component of Ceph.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p><b>REST</b> - Representational State Transfer is stateless, cacheable, layered client-server
          architecture with a uniform interface.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</body>
</topic>
