<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2280">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1 and 1.1.1: Ceph Monitoring</title>
<titlealts>
<searchtitle>HPE Helion Openstack 1.1: Ceph Monitoring</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Service Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Application Developer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Binamra S"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/ceph/1.1commenrcial.ceph-monitoring.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/ceph-monitoring/--></p>
<p>The HPE Helion OpenStack built-in monitoring packages allow the administrative monitoring of Ceph.
      The Icinga service, which runs on the undercloud, helps the cloud admin to monitor Ceph.
      Icinga is configured as follows:</p>
<ol>
<li>Icinga: The main alerting server that runs each check periodically on every host.</li>
<li>Icinga-web: TThe UI tool used to view the monitoring results.</li>
<li>
<codeph>Check_mk</codeph>: The utility that runs on the undercloud controller and on the each of the hosts that must be monitored. This utility runs local checks and sends result back to the main server.</li>
<li>
<codeph>mk_livestatus</codeph>: It gathers the results of the checks.</li>
</ol>
<p>Icinga-web can be accessed through  <b>https://&lt;undercloudcontrollerip&gt;/icinga</b>. The default login credentials are as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li>Username:icingaadmin</li>
<li>Password:icingaadmin</li>
</ul>
<p>The servers for Helion OpenStack overcloud and the undercloud are monitored. Also, Icinga
      monitors a list of the services and applications in the <b>Service Details</b>.</p>
<p>For Ceph Monitoring, the following scripts are run on HPE Helion OpenStack overcloud controller nodes and reports back the check results to the Icinga service:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<codeph>check_ceph_osd_status.sh</codeph>: Monitors the status of the available OSDs (if all are up and in the cluster)</li>
<li>
<codeph>check_ceph_pg_status.sh</codeph>: Monitors the status of the placement groups (if all are active and clean)</li>
<li>
<codeph>check_ceph_health.sh</codeph>: Monitors the overall health of the ceph storage cluster</li>
</ol>
<p>The Ceph checks run on every 10 seconds and reports back in the Icinga as follows:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<codeph>Ceph_OSD_Status</codeph>
</li>
<li>
<codeph>Ceph_PG_Status</codeph>
</li>
<li>
<codeph>Ceph_Cluster_Health</codeph>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The Ceph client installer script installs the Ceph health monitoring scripts in the <codeph>/usr/lib/check_mk_agent/local/</codeph> directory. The <codeph>check_mk</codeph> utility detects those scripts automatically through a cron job that runs periodically and begins using them to add the reporting details in the Icinga.</p>
<section id="next-steps"> <title>Next Steps</title>
<p>
  <xref href="../../../commercial/GA1/ceph/1.1commercial.ceph-helion-openstack-ceph-storage-administration.dita" >Ceph Storage Administration</xref>
</p>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic2280"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
