<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4522">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.0: Updating the Seed VM</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.update-101-seed.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/update/seed/101/--></p>
<p>The seed update instructions are different from the instructions for the undercloud and overcloud updates.  Not all updates will include seed updates, please check the <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.release-notes.dita" >HPE Helion OpenStack Release Notes</xref> to determine if there is a seed update.</p>
<p>For HPE Helion OpenStack 1.01, you do not need to update the seed. However, you should perform the following steps to back up the seed VM and  download and extract the HPE Helion OpenStack patch update.</p>
<!-- Not needed for 1.01
Updating the seed node involves saving current environment and configuration settings and restoring them after the update.
-->
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4522/backup">Backup the seed cloud host</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4522/backupsettings">Backup the original seed settings</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4522/extract">Extract the required scripts and libraries</xref>
</li>
      <li><xref href="#topic4522/update-the-seed-updateseed" format="dita">Update the seed</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4522/extractpatch">Download and extract the patch update</xref>
<!-- Not needed for 1.01
* [Restore the original seed settings](#restoreseed)
* [Verify the update](#verify)
--></li>
</ul>
<section id="backup"> <title>Back up the seed cloud host</title>
<p>Back up the seed node to restore in case of catastrophic failures.  For information, see <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.backup-restore-GA.dita" >Back Up and Restore</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="backupsettings"> <title>Back up the original seed settings</title>
<p>Before you proceed with seed node update, you should extract the updated scripts that is delivered as part of the patch.</p>
</section>
<section id="extract"> <title>Extract the required scripts and libraries</title>
<p>As mentioned in the <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.update-101-overview.dita" >Update Overview</xref>, a HPE Helion OpenStack patch update is composed of multiple major components.</p>
<p>The Overcloud node images can be one of the components. If you have <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.update-101-obtaining.dita" >downloaded the patch update using Sherpa</xref>, at this stage the overcloud node images are located in the undercloud image repository.</p>
<p>The other files come as TAR files and are delivered to the undercloud local filesystem, by default, the <codeph>/tmp/heat_templates</codeph> folder.  It is possible to change the location of the undercloud patch update tarballs, during or after deployment. See <xref type="section" href="#topic4522/default">Change the default</xref> below.</p>
<p>To extract the files:</p>
<!---
1. Use SSH to access the seed cloud host:

        ssh root@<seed_cloud_host_IP>
        sudo -i
-->
<ol>
<li>
<p>Copy the TAR file to the seed cloud host and extract contents. From an SSH session to the seed cloud host do the following:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ssh root@&lt;seed_cloud_host_IP&gt;
scp heat-admin@&lt;Insert undercloudIP&gt;:/tmp/heat_templates/* /tmp

tar xvf tripleo-ansible&lt;version&gt;.tar 
mv /opt/stack/tripleo-ansible /opt/stack/tripleo-ansible-orig
mv /tmp/tripleo-ansible /opt/stack/
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>Where:</p>

<ul>
<li>&lt;Insert undercloudIP&gt; is the IP of the undercloud node</li>
<li>/tmp/heat_templates/ is the default location of the TAR files; enter the appropriate location, if you have <xref type="section" href="#topic4522/default">changed the location</xref>.</li>
</ul>
<p>The files extracted in the seed tmp node.  If desired, you can delete the files in the <codeph>/tmp/heat_templates</codeph> directory.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Copy the TAR file to the KVM Host and extract contents. From an SSH session to the seed cloud host do the following:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ssh root@&lt;seed_cloud_host_IP&gt;
ssh heat-admin@&lt;Insert undercloudIP&gt;
sudo -i
scp /tmp/heat_templates/seed_update_1.0.0-1.01.tar &lt;username&gt;@&lt;KVMHOST_IP&gt;:/tmp/
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Login to KVM Host and execute the following command:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>cd /tmp/
tar xvf seed_update_1.0.0-1.01.tar
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="default"> <title>Change the default</title>
<p>It is possible to change the location of the undercloud patch update TAR files, during or after deployment. The default location is the <codeph>/tmp/heat_templates</codeph> folder.</p>
<p>If you have done so you can recall where you have changed the directory to by viewing the Sherpa configuration file.</p>
<p>The Sherpa configuration file for the undercloud can be found at <codeph>/etc/sherpa/sherpa.conf</codeph>.</p>
<p>The directory where the files where stored can be found by looking in the <codeph>RepositoryMgr</codeph> portion of <codeph>/etc/sherpa/sherpa.conf</codeph>. Search for the directory attribute as seen below:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>'file': {
'classname': 'sherpa.handlers.repository.file.FileSystemHandler',
'destinations': [
{
'directory': '/tmp/heat_templates',
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>When locating the update files, use the directory set in <codeph>/etc/sherpa/sherpa.conf</codeph>.</p>
</section>
<section id="update-the-seed-updateseed"> <title>Update the seed (#updateseed)</title>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Execute the <codeph>seed_update.sh</codeph> script to backup and copy the seed settings to host system:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>./seed_update.sh --backup-seed &lt;IP Address of Seed&gt; &lt;Backup Destination Folder&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="extractpatch"> <title>Download and extract the patch update</title>
<p>For HPE Helion OpenStack 1.01, you do not need to update the seed.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.update-101-obtaining.dita" >Download and extract the HPE Helion OpenStack patch update</xref>, if you have not done so already.  </li>
</ol>
<p>
<!-- Not needed for 1.01
2. Update the seed node as described in the [installation instructions](/helion/openstack/install/overview/) providing details for pre-requisites as used during  the initial installation.

## Restore original seed settings ## {#restoreseed}

Once the seed installation is complete, SSH into the seed node to confirm it is accessible.  

On the host node where the scripts were extracted, execute the script to restore seed settings on the updated seed.

    ./seed_update.sh -??-restore-seed <Ip Address of Seed> <Backup Source Folder>


## Verify the update ## {#verify}

Perform these basic tests to verify that the environment settings have been restored on seed node.  Connect to seed node using SSH.

1.  Verify local services

        . stackrc - Source the credentials for verification 
        nova list - Should list the servers
        glance image-list - Should list the images in glance
        heat stack-list - Should list the undercloud stack
        neutron net-list - Should list the ctlplanes

2.  Verify connectivity

        ssh heat-admin@<undercloud-IP>  -  Should be able to successful connect to undercloud
-->
<b>Note:</b> If the above verification steps fail, rerun the instructions to restore original seed settings. If the node is unrecoverable, <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.backup-restore-GA.dita" >restore the old image</xref>.</p>
</section>
<section id="next-steps"> <title>Next Steps</title>
<p>Update the undercloud. For installation instructions, see <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.update-101-undercloud.dita" >Updating the Undercloud</xref>.</p>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic4522"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
