<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5839">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.0: Command Line Interface- EON</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.undercloud-eon-cli.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/undercloud/eon/cli/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>The EON client CLI package provides an http-client coupled command-line tool for managing Eon (ESX management) services.</p>
<p>You can issue the following command using the EON client CLI package in the undercloud:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5839/help">Help Commands</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5839/api-command">API Command</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5839/vcenter-commands">vCenter Commands</xref>
</li>
      <li><xref href="#topic5839/cluster-command" format="dita"/></li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5839/proxy-command">Compute Proxy Commands</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic5839/required-arguments">Required Commands</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<section id="help-command"> <title>Help Commands<!--Removed anchor point help--><!-- id="help" --></title>
</section>
<section id="help"> <title>Help</title>
<p>You can display help for this program or one of its sub-programs.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>`eon --help `
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="help-subcommand"> <title>Help Subcommand</title>
<p>You get two sets of arguments: Positional (mandatory) and Optional arguments (all mandatory fields are marked within <i>[Required]</i>).</p>
<p>
  <codeph>eon help &lt;sub-command&gt;</codeph>
</p>
<p>You can use the following commands to view the help.</p>
</section>
<section id="api-command"> <title>API Command<!--Removed anchor point api-command--><!-- id="api-command" --></title>
</section>
<section id="bash-completion"> <title>Bash-completion<!--Removed anchor point bash-completion--><!-- id="bash-completion" --></title>
<p>Prints all of the commands and options to the standard output.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon bash-completion
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="vcenter-commands"> <title>vCenter Commands<!--Removed anchor point vcenter-commands--><!-- id="vcenter-commands" --></title>
</section>
<section id="list-vcenters"> <title>List vCenters<!--Removed anchor point list-vcenters--><!-- id="list-vcenters" --></title>
<p>You can view the list of vCenters in your cloud environment.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph> # eon vcenter-list 
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="view-vcenter-details"> <title>View vCenter details<!--Removed anchor point view-vcenter-details--><!-- id="view-vcenter-details" --></title>
<p>You can view the details of the specific vCenter.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon vcenter-show &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="add-vcenter"> <title>Add vCenter<!--Removed anchor point add-vcenter--><!-- id="add-vcenter" --></title>
<p>You can add the vCenter to the EON database. You must enter all the arguments to add the vCenter; otherwise you will be prompted to enter them.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon vcenter-add --name &lt;VCENTER_NAME&gt; --ip-address &lt;VCENTER_IP&gt; --username &lt;VCENTER_USERNAME&gt; --password &lt;VCENTER_PASSWORD&gt; --port &lt;VCENTER_PORT&gt; --proxy-config-file &lt;VCENTER_PROXY_CONFIG_FILE&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
<b>Note</b>: HPE Helion OpenStack supports three vCenters.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>&lt;VCENTER_NAME&gt;: Name of the vCenter</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>&lt;VCENTER_IP&gt;: IP address of the vCenter.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>&lt;VCENTER_USERNAME&gt;: Username of the vCenter administrator.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>&lt;VCENTER_PASSWORD&gt;: Password of the vCenter administrator.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>&lt;VCENTER_PORT&gt;: Port of the vCenter.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>&lt;VCENTER_PROXY_CONFIG_FILE&gt;:  File location of the proxy configuration.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="update-vcenter"> <title>Update vCenter<!--Removed anchor point update-vcenter--><!-- id="update-vcenter" --></title>
<p>You can update the exisitng vCenter to the EON database. You must enter all the arguments to add the vCenter; otherwise you will be prompted to enter them.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon vcenter-update [--name &lt;VCENTER_NAME&gt;] [--ip-address &lt;VCENTER_IP&gt;][--username &lt;VCENTER_USERNAME&gt;][--password &lt;VCENTER_PASSWORD&gt;][--port &lt;VCENTER_PORT&gt;]                       &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="delete-vcenter"> <title>Delete vCenter<!--Removed anchor point delete-vcenter--><!-- id="delete-vcenter" --></title>
<p>
<b>Important:</b> If you have any imported cluster ensure that you have deactivated them and then un-import the cluster(s) before executing the delete command.</p>
<p>vCenter delete fails:</p>
<ul>
<li>if you have any imported clusters that are activate clusters.</li>
</ul>
<p>You can delete the vCenter from the EON database.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon vcenter-delete &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="vswitch-list"> <title>List vswitch<!--Removed anchor point vswitch-list--><!-- id="vswitch-list" --></title>
<p>You can view the list of vswitches of vCenter.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon vswitch-list &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="vswitch-show"> <title>View vswitch details<!--Removed anchor point vswitch-show--><!-- id="vswitch-show" --></title>
<p>You can view the vswitch details. The ID of vCenter and MOID of vswitch will be displayed.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph> # eon vswitch-show --vswitch-moid &lt;VSWITCH_MOID&gt; &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="host-details"> <title>Host details<!--Removed anchor point host-details--><!-- id="host-details" --></title>
<p>You can view the list of hosts of cluster details of the host when cluster <codeph>moid</codeph> is specified.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph> # eon host-list --vcenter-id &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt; [--clusters &lt;CLUSTER_MOIDS&gt; [&lt;CLUSTER_MOIDS&gt; ...]]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="cluster-command"> <title>Cluster Commands<!--Removed anchor point cluster-command--><!-- id="cluster-command" --></title>
</section>
<section id="list-clusters"> <title>List clusters<!--Removed anchor point list-clusters--><!-- id="list-clusters" --></title>
<p>You can view the list of clusters available for the given vCenter.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon cluster-list --vcenter-id &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="view-cluster-details"> <title>View cluster details<!--Removed anchor point view-cluster-details--><!-- id="view-cluster-details" --></title>
<p>You can view of the details of the specific cluster.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph> # eon cluster-show --vcenter-id &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt; --cluster-moid &lt;CLUSTER_MOID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="import-cluster"> <title>Import clusters<!--Removed anchor point import-cluster--><!-- id="import-cluster" --></title>
<p>You can import the clusters in the EON database under the give vCenter.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon import-cluster --vcenter-id &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt; --cluster-name &lt;CLUSTER_NAME&gt; --cluster-moid &lt;CLUSTER_MOID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>In the vCenter you can import the cluster(s). One vCenter can have multiple clusters.</p>
</section>
<section id="cluster-update"> <title>Update a cluster<!--Removed anchor point cluster-update--><!-- id="cluster-update" --></title>
<p>You can update the cluster details.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon cluster-update --vcenter-id &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt; --cluster-moid &lt;CLUSTER_MOID&gt; --state &lt;STATE&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="unimport-clusters"> <title>Unimport clusters<!--Removed anchor point unimport-clusters--><!-- id="unimport-clusters" --></title>
<p>You can un-import the cluster(s) from the EON database under the give vCenter.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon unimport-cluster --vcenter-id &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt; --cluster-moid &lt;CLUSTER_MOID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="activate-clusters"> <title>Activate clusters<!--Removed anchor point activate-clusters--><!-- id="activate-clusters" --></title>
<p>You can activate the clusters using the following:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon activate-clusters --vcenter-id &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt; --clusters &lt;CLUSTER_MOIDS&gt; [&lt;CLUSTER_MOIDS&gt; ...]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="deactivate-clusters"> <title>Deactivate clusters<!--Removed anchor point deactivate-clusters--><!-- id="deactivate-clusters" --></title>
<p>You can deactivate clusters.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon deactivate-clusters --vcenter-id &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt; --clusters &lt;CLUSTER_MOIDS&gt; [&lt;CLUSTER_MOIDS&gt; ...]
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="proxy-command"> <title>Compute Proxy Commands<!--Removed anchor point proxy-command--><!-- id="proxy-command" --></title>
</section>
<section id="compute-proxy-list"> <title>List of compute proxy<!--Removed anchor point compute-proxy-list--><!-- id="compute-proxy-list" --></title>
<p>View the list of compute proxies.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon compute-proxy-list
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="restore-proxy"> <title>Restore proxy<!--Removed anchor point restore-proxy--><!-- id="restore-proxy" --></title>
<p>In case of failure of Proxy-VM, the Compute Proxy VM can be restored to the previous configuration using the following command. In other words, it recreates the Compute Proxy virtual machine with previously activated clusters.</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># eon restore-proxy &lt;VCENTER_ID&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic5839"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="required-arguments"> <title>Required Commands</title>
<p>The following options must be supplied as arguments or as environment variables.</p>
</section>
<section id="os-username"> <title>OS username<!--Removed anchor point os-username--><!-- id="os-username" --></title>
<p>Username of the keystone (OpenStack environment). Defaults to env[OS_USERNAME].</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># --os-username OS_USERNAME
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="os-password"> <title>OS password<!--Removed anchor point os-password--><!-- id="os-password" --></title>
<p>Password of the keystone (OpenStack environment).  Defaults to env[OS_PASSWORD].</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># --os-password OS_PASSWORD
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="os-tenant-id"> <title>OS tenant ID<!--Removed anchor point os-tenant-id--><!-- id="os-tenant-id" --></title>
<p>Tenant identification of the OpenStack environment. Defaults to env[OS_TENANT_ID].</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># --os-tenant-id OS_TENANT_ID
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="os-auth-url"> <title>OS authentication URL<!--Removed anchor point os-auth-url--><!-- id="os-auth-url" --></title>
<p>Authentication URL of the OpenStack environment. Defaults to env[OS_AUTH_URL].</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># --os-auth-url OS_AUTH_URL
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="os-auth-token"> <title>OS authenticationtoken<!--Removed anchor point os-auth-token--><!-- id="os-auth-token" --></title>
<p>Authentication token of the OpenStack environment. Defaults to env[OS_AUTH_TOKEN].</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph># --os-auth-token OS_AUTH_TOKEN
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic5839"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
