<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2391">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.0: Add New Scale-out Proxy Node</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Keshava HPE Binamra S"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version4" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.0commerical.services-swift-deployment-add-proxy-node.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/services/swift/deployment/add-proxy-node/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>This topic shows how to add a proxy node to the store account and container ring.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2391/prer">Prerequisite</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic2391/deploying-new-node">Deploying new node(s)</xref>
</li>
</ol>
<section id="prer"> <title>Prerequisite</title>
<ul>
<li>HPE Helion OpenStack cloud is successfully deployed.<p>(Starter Swift nodes are functional by
            default as they are part of cloud deployment) </p></li>
<li>Scale-out object-ring:1 is deployed.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="deploying-new-node"> <title>Deploying new node(s)</title>
<p>Perform the steps mentioned in  <xref href="../../commercial/GA1/1.0commerical.services-swift-deployment-provision-swift-node.dita" >Provision Node(s)</xref> to deploy a new node.</p>
</section>
<section id="update-load-balancer-with-new-proxy-nodes"> <title>Update load balancer with new Proxy nodes</title>
<ol>
<li>Log in to the undercloud from
          seed.<codeblock><codeph># ssh heat-admin@&lt;undercloud IP address&gt; 
# sudo -i</codeph>
</codeblock></li>
<li>Change the directory to ring
          builder.<codeblock><codeph># cd /root/ring-building 
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Copy account, container, object, and generated <codeph>object-1.ring.gz</codeph> files to proxy
          nodes and press <b>yes</b> when asked to authenticate the
          node.<codeblock><codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\*.ring.gz -n &lt;proxy node IP address&gt; 
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Copy account, container, object, and generated <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> files to proxy
          nodes.<codeblock><codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/\object-1.builder -n &lt;proxy node IP address&gt;
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>After creation of the Proxy node, list the Proxy IP
          addresses.<codeblock><codeph># ringos list-swift-nodes -t proxy
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>List all the controller nodes<codeblock><codeph># nova list
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Edit <codeph>swift-proxy.cfg</codeph> on each of the controller
          nodes.<codeblock><codeph>/etc/haproxy/manual/swift-proxy.cfg
</codeph></codeblock></li>
<li>Add the following content in the <codeph>swift-proxy.cfg</codeph> file.<codeblock><codeph>  listen scale_swift_proxy
  bind &lt;Virtual IP (running on the controller nodes)&gt;:8080
  server &lt;proxy node hostname&gt; &lt;proxy nodes IP address&gt;:8080 check inter 2000 rise 2 fall 5 
</codeph></codeblock><p>
            <note> The number of "server" lines equals the number of Swift Proxies you have set up.
                <p>                  For virtual IP:</p><ul id="ul_kqy_yqj_4s">
                <li>
                  <p>Login to the controller node</p>
                  <codeblock><codeph># ssh heat-admin@&lt;Controller Node IP address&gt;
# sudo -i
</codeph></codeblock>
                </li>
                <li>
                  <p>Run the following command to view the virtual IP of the controller nodes</p>
                  <codeblock><codeph>vi /etc/keepalived/keepalived.conf
</codeph></codeblock>
                </li>
              </ul></note>
          </p></li>
<li>Restart the HA Proxy service on all these
          nodes.<codeblock><codeph># service haproxy restart
</codeph></codeblock></li>
</ol>
<p>The Swift Proxies are now successfully enabled with HA Proxy.</p>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic2391"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
