<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3300">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.0: Installing an NTP Server</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.install-GA-NTP.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/install/ntp/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>This page provides detailed information on configuring the seed VM as a Network Time Protocol (NTP) server. NTP is a networking protocol for clock synchronization between computer systems. The undercloud and overcloud systems are configured as NTP clients during the installation process.</p>
<p>All the Helion servers use UTC as a time zone.</p>
<p>
<b>Note:</b> NTP clients should use only stratum 2 and higher servers</p>
<section id="configure-ntp"> <title>Configure NTP</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Install the NTP package using the following command:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>sudo apt-get install ntp
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify that there are broadcasting NTP servers:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ntpq -pd
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> The NTP stratum must be 10 or higher in order to use as a source. If one is not available, you may be able to <xref type="section" href="#topic3300/fudge">fudge one</xref>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add NTP servers to <codeph>/etc/ntp.conf</codeph>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Configure system time zone in the <codeph>/usr/bin/tzselect</codeph> directory.</p>

<p>The output should be placed in <codeph>/etc/profile</codeph> and executed on the command line</p>

<p>Note: if your NTP source is less than a stratum 10 you will not be able to properly sync the clients with the server. You can use the <codeph>fudge</codeph> command as described in <xref type="section" href="#topic3300/fudge">Stratum lower than 10</xref> in Troubleshooting.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify that your server is broadcasting. You should see a message similar to the following:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>"*LOCAL(0)") ntpq -pd
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>You can now point clients to your NTP server</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add your NTP server ip to the clients <codeph>/etc/ntp.conf</codeph> file</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Configure system timezone</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>/usr/bin/tzselect
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The output should be placed in <codeph>/etc/profile</codeph> and executed on the command line</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Restart NTP service</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>service ntp restart
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify that you have a connection to the NTP server</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ntpq -pd
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify that your server shows client connections</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>ntpdc -c monlist
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="troubleshooting"> <title>Troubleshooting</title>
</section>
<section id="trouble-synching"> <title>Trouble synching</title>
<p>If your client (including your NTP server) has trouble syncing time you can try the following.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Sync system time with system clock:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>hwclock [--utc | --localtime] -s --hctosys (update system time based on hardware clock)
hwclock [--utc | --localtime] -w --systohc (update hardware clock based on system time)
hwclock [--utc | --localtime] --systz (update system time based on timezone)
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify hardware clock time</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>hwclock -r
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Verify system time</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>date
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>If the times are still not synching, check if NTP ports are blocked</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>sudo apt-get install nmap

sudo nmap -p123 -sU -P0 &lt;localhost | known ntp host&gt;
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="fudge"> <title>Stratum lower than 10<!--Removed anchor point fudge--><!-- id="fudge" --></title>
<p>NTP uses a hierarchical, semi-layered system of time sources. Each level of this hierarchy is termed a "stratum" and is assigned a number starting with zero at the top. The number represents the distance from the reference clock and is used to prevent cyclical dependencies in the hierarchy.</p>
<p>HPE Helion OpenStack uses stratum 10. If your NTP stratum is lower than 10, set up your host as the time source by fudging a stratum 10.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Configure host as a time source.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Add the following to /etc/ntp.conf to force a stratum 10</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>server 127.127.1.0
fudge 127.127.1.0 stratum 10
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<p>Restart NTP service</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>service ntp restart
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
