<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" >
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1968">
  <title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.0: Undercloud Horizon Dashboard: Settings
    Tab</title>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body>
    <p>
      <!--PUBLISHED-->
      <!--./commercial/GA1/1.0commercial.undercloud-admin-settings.md-->
      <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/undercloud/admin/settings/--></p>
    <p> </p>
    <p>The options on the Settings tab allow changes to the following:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic1968/user-settings">User Settings</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic1968/change-password">Change Password</xref>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>To view the <b>Settings</b> tab, click the <b>Admin</b> icon in the top panel of the Horizon
      undercloud dashboard and select <b>Settings</b>. The tab appears in the left panel on the
      dashboard.</p>
    <section id="user-settings">
      <title>User
        settings<!--Removed anchor point user-settings--><!-- id="user-settings" --></title>
      <p>This option allows you to change the user settings. To change the settings, do the
        following:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>From the top panel, click <b>Admin</b> and then select
            <b>Settings</b>.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> The Settings Tab
            is displayed in the left panel with two options <b>User Settings</b> and <b>Change
              Password</b>.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.-->The default is User
            Settings.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>In the User Settings page, from the <b>Language</b> drop-down list, select the desired
            language.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> The default is English.
          </p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>From the <b>Timezone</b> drop-down list, select the time zone.
            <!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> The default is UTC (Universal
            Coordinated Time). </p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>From <b>Items per Page</b> drop-down list, select the number of lines that you want to
            display per page.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> The default is 20
            lines per page.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Click <b>Save</b> to save the changes.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
      <p>
        <xref href="#topic1968"> Return to Top </xref>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="change-password">
      <title>Change
        Password<!--Removed anchor point change-password--><!-- id="change-password" --></title>
      <p>This option allows you to the change the password. Do the following:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>From the top panel, click <b>Admin</b> and then select
            <b>Settings</b>.<!--A BR tag was used here in the original source.--> The Settings Tab
            is displayed in the left panel with two options <b>User Settings</b> and <b>Change
              Password</b>.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Click <b>Change Password</b> to display the Change Password page.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>In the <b>Current Password</b> box, enter your current password.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>In the <b>New Password</b> box, enter the new password.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>In the <b>Confirm Password</b> box, re-enter your new password to confirm.</p>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Click <b>Change</b> to save the changes.</p>
        </li>
      </ol>
      <p>
        <xref href="#topic1968"> Return to Top </xref>
      </p>
      <!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
