<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4147">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Remove an existing Disk from Object Nodes</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Keshava HPE Binamra S"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.0"/>
<othermeta name="product-version3" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.0.1"/>
<othermeta name="product-version4" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-swift-deployment-shrink-remove-exisitng-disk.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/swift/deployment/remove-existing-disk/--></p>
<p>

</p>
<p>Perform the following steps to remove a disk from object nodes.</p>
<ol>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4147/prer">Prerequisite</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic4147/remove-disk-from-ring">Removing disks from ring</xref>
</li>
</ol>
<section id="prer"> <title>Prerequisite</title>
<ul>
<li>HPE Helion OpenStack cloud is successfully deployed.<p><i>(Starter Object Storage (Swift) nodes
              are functional by default as they are part of cloud deployment)</i>
          </p></li>
<li>Scale-out object-ring:1 is deployed.</li>
<li>All of the rings generated <b>must</b> be preserved, preferably at more than one location. Swift needs these rings to be consistent across all nodes.</li>
<li>Take a backup of the rings before any operation.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="remove-disk-from-ring">
      <title>Removing disks from ring</title>
      <p>Perform the following steps to remove disks from ring:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to the undercloud from
          seed.<codeblock><codeph># ssh heat-admin@&lt;undercloud IP address&gt; 
# sudo -i</codeph></codeblock></li>
        <li>Change the directory to ring
          builder.<codeblock><codeph># cd /root/ring-building
</codeph></codeblock></li>
        <li>List the file in the directory.<codeblock><codeph># ls
</codeph></codeblock><p>The file
            with the name <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph> will be listed in the list.</p></li>
        <li>List the disks in the current <codeph>object-1.builder</codeph>
            file.<codeblock><codeph># ringos view-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder 
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
            following sample displays the output of the above
          command:</p><codeblock><codeph>object-1.builder, build version 9
1024 partitions, 3.000000 replicas, 1 regions, 3 zones, 9 devices, 100.00 balance
The minimum number of hours before a partition can be reassigned is 1
Devices:    id  region  zone      ip address  port  replication ip  replication port      name weight partitions balance meta
             0       1     1      192.0.2.29  6000      192.0.2.29              6000 a1410063335 100.00          0 -100.00
             1       1     1      192.0.2.29  6000      192.0.2.29              6000 b1410063336 100.00          0 -100.00
             2       1     1      192.0.2.29  6000      192.0.2.29              6000 c1410063336 100.00          0 -100.00
             3       1     2      192.0.2.30  6000      192.0.2.30              6000 a1410063357 100.00          0 -100.00
             4       1     2      192.0.2.30  6000      192.0.2.30              6000 b1410063357 100.00          0 -100.00
</codeph>
</codeblock></li>
        <li>Identify the disk to be removed from the list.<p><b>Recommendation</b>:</p><ul
            id="ul_kgc_s5d_4s">
            <li>Remove a drive gradually using a weighted approach to avoid degraded performance of
              the Swift cluster. The weight will gradually decrease by 25% until it becomes 0. The
              initial weight is 75.</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Set the weight of the
            disk.<codeblock><codeph># ringos set-weight -f object-1.builder -s d&lt;device&gt; -w &lt;weight&gt;
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
            following sample displays the output of the above
            command:<codeblock><codeph> d7r1z3-192.0.2.31:6000R192.0.2.31:6000/b1410063386_"" weight set to 75.0
</codeph></codeblock></p></li>
        <li>Re-balance the
            ring.<codeblock><codeph># ringos rebalance-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder</codeph></codeblock><note>You
            must wait for <codeph>min_part_hours</codeph> before another re-balance
          succeeds.</note></li>
        <li>List all the Swift
          nodes.<codeblock><codeph># ringos list-swift-nodes -t all
</codeph></codeblock></li>
        <li>.Copy the <codeph>object-1.ring.gz</codeph> file to all
          nodes.<codeblock><codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/object-1.ring.gz -n &lt;Swift nodes IP address&gt;
</codeph></codeblock></li>
        <li>Repeat steps from <b>6 - 9</b> with the weights set to 50, 25, and 0 (w= 50, 25, 0).
          These steps should be repeated until the weight becomes 0 for each disk.</li>
        <li>Once the weight is set to 0, remove the disk from the
            ring.<codeblock><codeph># ringos remove-disk-from-ring -f object-1.builder -s d&lt;disk&gt;
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
            following sample displays the output of the above
            command:<codeblock><codeph>Removed disk(s) matching d7 from ring object-1.builder
</codeph></codeblock></p></li>
        <li>Re-balance the
            ring.<codeblock><codeph># ringos rebalance-ring -f /root/ring-building/object-1.builder</codeph></codeblock><note>You
            must wait for min_part_hours before another re-balance succeeds.</note></li>
        <li>List all the Swift
          nodes.<codeblock><codeph># ringos list-swift-nodes -t all
</codeph></codeblock></li>
        <li>Copy the <codeph>object-1.ring.gz</codeph> file to all
          nodes.<codeblock><codeph># ringos copy-ring -s /root/ring-building/object-1.ring.gz -n &lt;Swift nodes IP address&gt;
</codeph></codeblock></li>
      </ol>
      <p>
        <xref href="#topic4147"> Return to Top </xref>
      </p>
    </section>
</body>
</topic>
