<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1619">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Compute Service: Storing Metadata on a Configuration Drive</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Systems Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="System Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Cloud Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Network Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Engineer"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Jayme P"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Openstack"/>
<othermeta name="product-version2" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-compute-configDrive.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/compute/overview/configdrive/--></p>
<p>The HPE Helion OpenStack compute service can be configured to write metadata to a special configuration drive. This configuration drive automatically attaches to the instance when it boots. When the instance boots, it mounts the drive and reads files from it to get information that is normally available through the metadata service. Note that metadata is different from user data.</p>
<p>One reason to use a configuration drive is to pass networking configuration information. For example, if you do not want to use DHCP, you could pass the IP address for the instance through the configuration drive, which the instance would mount and access before you configure the network settings for the instance.</p>
<p>Any modern guest operating system that is capable of mounting an ISO 9660 or VFAT file system can use a configuration drive. However, by default, ESX and KVM deployments do not have <b>force_config_drive</b> set to <b>TRUE</b> (or <b>Always</b>) in the Compute (Nova) service configuration.</p>
<p>The process is the same whether you are using the KVM or ESX hypervisor. To use a configuration drive, set the <b>config_drive</b> option to <b>TRUE</b> in the Horizon console and then boot an instance of the image.</p>
</body>
</topic>
