<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd"><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic9275">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> 1.1: Integrate the Identity Service (Keystone) with LDAP/AD</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
<othermeta name="product-version" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Administrator"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Storage Architect"/>
<othermeta name="role" content="Michael B, Meera B,"/>
<othermeta name="product-version1" content="HPE Helion Openstack 1.1"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./commercial/GA1/1.1commerical.services-identity-integrate-ldap.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/openstack/1.1/services/identity/integrate-ldap/--></p>
    <p> <xref href="1.1commercial.install-GA-prereqs.dita#topic9786/ldap" type="section">▲ Prerequisites</xref> </p>
<!-- Based on https://wiki.hpcloud.net/display/csbu/Integrating+Keystone+with+LDAP+in+Helion+1.1 -->
<p>The HPE Helion OpenStack Identity service can use Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) to integrate your organization's existing directory service and user account management processes.     LDAP integration can be performed during the HPE Helion OpenStack installation process.</p>
<p>Multiple authentication backends are supported, using the Keystone Domain-Specific Configuration feature. Separate authentication domains can be created to authenticate users on single LDAP server with different filters, or on different LDAP servers.</p>
<p>The process for integrating LDAP during installation involves the following steps:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9275/pre">Verify prerequisites</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9275/config">Generate configuration files</xref>
</li>
            <li><xref href="#topic9275/connect" format="dita"/></li>
            <li><xref href="#topic9275/keystone" format="dita"/></li>
            <li><xref href="#topic9275/per-domain-ldap-backend-configuration-post-installation"
                    format="dita"/></li>
</ul>
<section id="pre"> <title>Prerequisites</title>
<p>Before starting the integration, make sure your environment meets the following prerequisite:</p>
<ul>
<li>LDAP server is up and running and is network accessible from the overcloud.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section id="config"> <title>Generate configuration files</title>
<p>The LDAP integration process uses two configuration files:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9275/connect">LDAP server connection settings</xref>
</li>
<li>
<xref type="section" href="#topic9275/keystone">Keystone CA storage and signing key/certificate file (Optional)</xref>
</li>
</ul>
<p>During the HPE Helion OpenStack installation, you will copy the files to a specified location and the installation process will pick up the files.</p>
</section>
<section id="connect"> <title>LDAP connection settings</title>
<p>The LDAP server connection settings are contained in the <codeph>overcloud_keystone_ldap.json</codeph> file, which is a well-formed JSON file.</p>
<p>Create a file using well-formed, syntax-error free json. See <xref href="1.1commerical.services-identity-ldap-JSON.dita">Sample LDAP Server Connection Settings JSON File</xref> for an example <codeph>overcloud_keystone_ldap.json</codeph> file.</p>
<p>Section names, supported options and possible values are described in <xref href="1.1commerical.services-identity-overview.dita">OpenStack Identity Service documentation</xref>. The following table lists several important values:</p>
<table>
<tgroup cols="4">
                    <colspec colname="col1" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
                    <colspec colname="col2" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
                    <colspec colname="col3" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
                    <colspec colname="col4" colsep="1" rowsep="1"/>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry>
                                <b> Username </b>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>
                                <b>Password</b>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>
                                <b> AD/LDAP Default values </b>
                            </entry>
                            <entry>
                                <b>OpenLDAP default values</b>
                            </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>[identity]</entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>driver</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) Identity backend driver</entry>
                            <entry>keystone.identity.backends.ldap.Identity</entry>
                            <entry>keystone.identity.backends.ldap.Identity </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>[assignment]</entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>driver</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) Assignment backend driver</entry>
                            <entry> keystone.assignment.backends.sql.Assignment</entry>
                            <entry>keystone.assignment.backends.sql.Assignment</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>[ldap]</entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                            <entry> </entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>group_id_attribute</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP attribute mapped to group id.</entry>
                            <entry>cn</entry>
                            <entry>cn</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>group_name_attribute</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP attribute mapped to group name.</entry>
                            <entry>cn</entry>
                            <entry>cn</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>group_objectclass</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP objectclass for groups.</entry>
                            <entry>group</entry>
                            <entry>posixGroup</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>group_tree_dn</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) Search base for groups.</entry>
                            <entry>CN=Users,DC=example,DC=com</entry>
                            <entry>ou=groups,dc=hpswlabs,dc=apps,dc=hp,dc=com</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>group_allow_create</entry>
                            <entry>(BoolOpt) Allow group creation in LDAP backend.</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>group_allow_delete</entry>
                            <entry>(BoolOpt) Allow group deletion in LDAP backend.</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>group_allow_update</entry>
                            <entry>(BoolOpt) Allow group update in LDAP backend.</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>suffix</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP server suffix</entry>
                            <entry>DC=example,DC=com</entry>
                            <entry>dc=example,dc=com</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>url</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) URL for connecting to the LDAP server.</entry>
                            <entry>ldap://localhost</entry>
                            <entry>ldap://localhost</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_allow_create</entry>
                            <entry>(BoolOpt) Allow user creation in LDAP backend.</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_allow_delete</entry>
                            <entry>(BoolOpt) Allow user deletion in LDAP backend.</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_allow_update</entry>
                            <entry>(BoolOpt) Allow user updates in LDAP backend.</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_id_attribute</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP attribute mapped to user id.</entry>
                            <entry>cn</entry>
                            <entry>cn</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_name_attribute</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP attribute mapped to user name.</entry>
                            <entry>cn</entry>
                            <entry>cn</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_objectclass</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP objectclass for users.</entry>
                            <entry>user</entry>
                            <entry>Person</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_tree_dn</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) Search base for users.</entry>
                            <entry>CN=Users,DC=example,DC=com</entry>
                            <entry>ou=people,dc=example,dc=com</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) User BindDN to query the LDAP server.</entry>
                            <entry>CN=SomeLDAPUser,CN=Users,DC=example,DC=com</entry>
                            <entry>Not Required</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>password</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) Password for the BindDN to query the LDAP
                                server.</entry>
                            <entry>password</entry>
                            <entry>Not Required</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>use_tls</entry>
                            <entry>(BoolOpt) Enable TLS for communicating with LDAP servers.</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                            <entry>False</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>tls_req_cert</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) Valid options for tls_req_cert are demand, never, and
                                allow.</entry>
                            <entry>never</entry>
                            <entry>Never</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>use_pool</entry>
                            <entry>(BoolOpt) Enable LDAP connection pooling.</entry>
                            <entry>True</entry>
                            <entry>True</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_enabled_attribute</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP attribute mapped to user enabled flag.</entry>
                            <entry>userAccountControl</entry>
                            <entry>Not required</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_enabled_mask</entry>
                            <entry>(IntOpt) Bitmask integer indicating which bit represents the
                                enabled value. This is used when the LDAP server represents the
                                variable `enabled` as a bit in an integer rather than as a Boolean.
                                A value of "0" indicates the mask is not used. When not set to "0",
                                the typical value is "2". This is typically used when
                                `user_enabled_attribute = userAccountControl`.</entry>
                            <entry>2</entry>
                            <entry>Not required</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_enabled_default</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) Default value to enable users. This should match an
                                appropriate int value if the LDAP server uses non-boolean (bitmask)
                                values to indicate if a user is enabled or disabled. If this is not
                                set to "True" the typical value is "512". This is typically used
                                when `user_enabled_attribute = userAccountControl`.</entry>
                            <entry>512</entry>
                            <entry>Not required</entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry>user_mail_attribute</entry>
                            <entry>(StrOpt) LDAP attribute mapped to user email.</entry>
                            <entry>userPrincipalName</entry>
                            <entry>Not required</entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section id="keystone"> <title>Keystone CA storage and signing key/certificate files</title>
<p>LDAP server might require all connections to be secured though the <xref href="1.1commcerical.install-TLS.dita">TLS protocol</xref>. Additionally, Keystone may be instructed to validate LDAP server certificate against local CA certificate storage.</p>
<p>To activate this feature:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Set options <codeph>use_tls</codeph>, <codeph>tls_req_cert</codeph> and <codeph>tls_cacertfile</codeph> appropriately in the <codeph>overcloud_keystone_ldap.json</codeph> file described above.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Create the <codeph>overcloud-env.json</codeph> file with the following content:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>{
    "parameters": {
        "KeystoneCACertificate": "&lt;CA Root Certificates converted to a single line&gt;",
        "KeystoneSigningCertificate": "&lt;Keystone Signing Certificate converted to a single line&gt;",
        "KeystoneSigningKey": "&lt;Keystone Signing Key converted to a single line&gt;"
    }
}
</codeph>
</codeblock>

<p>The set of CA Root Certificates set mentioned above should contain root certificates for all LDAP servers, for which certificate validation set to <codeph>demand</codeph> or <codeph>allow</codeph>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Change <codeph>overcloud-env.json</codeph> file access permissions to <codeph>0600</codeph>:</p>

<codeblock>
<codeph>chmod 600 overcloud-env.json
</codeph>
</codeblock>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Follow the steps described in the installation instructions to deploy the overcloud nodes.</p>
<p>
    <xref href="1.1commercial.install-GA-kvm.dita#topic5847/startseed" type="section">HPE Helion OpenStack Installation and Configuration for KVM Hypervisor</xref>
</p>
<p>
  <xref href="1.1commercial.install-GA-esx.dita#startseed" type="section">HPE Helion OpenStack Installation and Configuration for ESX Hypervisor</xref>
</p>
</section>
<section id="per-domain-ldap-backend-configuration-post-installation"> <title>Per-domain LDAP Backend Configuration Post-installation</title>
<p>While you may configure LDAP at installation time, you may also add LDAP support on a per-domain basis after installation because Keystone also supports the option to specify identity driver configurations on a domain-by-domain basis. This allows you to, for example, give a specific domain  its own LDAP server. By default, the option to configure domain-specific drivers is enabled via the Helion installer, like so:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>[identity]
domain_specific_drivers_enabled = True
domain_config_dir = /etc/keystone/domains
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>With domain_specific_drivers_enabled set to True, this   feature will be enabled, causing Keystone to look in the domain_config_dir (e.g. default as /etc/keystone/domains/) for configuration files of the form:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>keystone.&lt;domain_name&gt;.conf
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>The name is important and is always of the form: keystone.&lt;domain-name&gt;.conf, where the domain name must match the name of the domain created in Keystone. Options provided in the domain-specific configuration file will override those in the primary configuration file (i.e. keystone.conf) for the specified domain.</p>
<p>Domains without a specific configuration file will continue to use the options from the primary configuration file.
For example, if the service provider creates a domain called "domainA", then the domain-specific configuration file must be keystone.domainA.conf.  The sample contents of this configuration file using openLDAP as the backend might look something like the following:</p>
<codeblock>
  <codeph>[identity]
driver = keystone.identity.backends.ldap.Identity

[assignment]
driver = keystone.assignment.backends.sql.Assignment


[ldap]
url = ldap://localhost
suffix = dc=example,dc=com
query_scope = sub
user_tree_dn = ou=Users,dc=example,dc=com
user_objectclass = posixAccount
user_id_attribute = uid
user_name_attribute = cn
user_enabled_default = False
user_allow_create = False
user_allow_update = False
user_allow_delete = False
group_tree_dn = ou=Groups,dc=example,dc=com
group_objectclass = posixGroup
group_id_attribute = cn
group_name_attribute = cn
group_allow_create = False
group_allow_update = False
group_allow_delete = False
use_tls = True
tls_cacertfile = /mnt/state/etc/keystone/ssl/certs/ca.pem
tls_req_cert = demand
</codeph>
</codeblock>
<p>For information on all the attributes you can set for openLDAP/Active Directory, please refer to the LDAP connection settings listed above.</p>
<p>Once the LDAP domain configuration as described above is complete,  you must restart Apache on all the overcloud controller nodes for the settings to take effect.</p>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic9275"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
<!-- ===================== horizontal rule ===================== -->
</section>
</body>
</topic>
