<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="idg-opsconsole-en-compute_instances-dita-1">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Compute Instances</title>
   <para>This Operations Console page allows you to monitor your Compute instances.</para>
        <para/>
        
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Search and Sort</bridgehead>
      <para>The search bar allows you to filter the alarm definitions you want to view. Type and
                Status are examples of alarm criteria that can be specified. Additionally, you can
                filter by typing in text similar to searching by keywords.</para>
      <para>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of alarm definitions to
                delete:</para>
      <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Select Visible</guilabel> allows you to delete the selected alarm
                    definitions from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Select All</guilabel> allows you to delete all the alarms from the
                    table.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Clear Selection</guilabel> allows you to clear all the selections
                    currently selected from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
      <para>You can display the alarm definitions by grid, list or table views by selecting the
                corresponding icons next to the <guilabel>Sort By</guilabel> control.</para>
      <para>The <guilabel>Sort By</guilabel> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which
                you can sort the compute nodes. Alternatively, you can also sort using the column
                headers in the table.</para>
      <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Name</guilabel> displays the compute instances by the name
                    assigned to it when it was created.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by State</guilabel> displays the compute instances by their
                    current state.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Status</guilabel> displays the compute instances by their
                    current status.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Host</guilabel> displays the compute instances by their
                    host.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Image</guilabel> displays the compute instances by the image
                    being used.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by IP Address</guilabel> displays the compute instances by
                    their IP address.</para>
         </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
   
    </section>
