<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="idg-opsconsole-en-notification_methods-dita-1">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Notification Methods</title>
        <para/>
        
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Search and Sort</bridgehead>
      <para>The search bar allows you to filter the notification methods you want to view. </para>
      <para>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of notification methods to
                delete:</para>
      <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Select Visible</guilabel> allows you to delete the selected
                    notification methods from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Select All</guilabel> allows you to delete all the notification
                    methods from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Clear Selection</guilabel> allows you to clear all the selections
                    currently selected from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
      <para>You can display the notification methods by grid, list or table views by selecting
                the corresponding icons next to the <guilabel>Sort By</guilabel> control.</para>
      <para>The <guilabel>Sort By</guilabel> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which
                you can sort the alarm definitions. Alternatively, you can also sort using the
                column headers in the table.</para>
      <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Status</guilabel> displays the notification methods by their
                    status.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Metric</guilabel> displays the descriptive details of the
                    alarm definitions.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Severity</guilabel> displays the alarm definitions'
                    notification criteria, such as whether enabled for certain types of alarms and
                    how the notification is disseminated (by Email, Web, etc.)</para>
         </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
   
        
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Create Notification Methods</bridgehead>
      <para>The <guilabel>Create Notification Methods</guilabel> button beside the search bar
                allows you to create a new notification method.</para>
      <para>To create a new notification method:</para>
      <orderedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>Click the <guilabel>Create Notification Method</guilabel> button to open a
                    separate window that allows you to configure a new notification method.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>In the Create Notification Method window, type a name for the notification in
                    the <guilabel>Name</guilabel> text field. The name is required and may be up
                    to 255 characters in length consisting of letters, numbers, or special
                    characters.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>Select a <guilabel>Type</guilabel> in the drop down. Choices are:. </para>
            <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem>
                  <para>
                     <guilabel>URL</guilabel> allows you to enter in an internet address
                            Also referred to as a <guilabel>Web Hook</guilabel>.</para>
               </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                  <para>
                     <guilabel>Email</guilabel> allows you to enter in an email address.
                            See Note Below.</para>
               </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                  <para>
                     <guilabel>PagerDuty</guilabel> allows you to enter in a PagerDuty
                            address.</para>
               </listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>In the <guilabel>Address/Key</guilabel> text field, enter in a valid value
                    based on the type you chose.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>When done creating the notification method, click <guilabel>Create Notification
                        Method</guilabel>. </para>
         </listitem>
            </orderedlist>
      <note>
         <para>For this method to work you need to have a SMTP server specified.</para>
      </note>
   
        <para>After the notification method saves, the Notification Methods window refreshes with
                the new notification method populated in the table.</para>
    </section>
