<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="idg-opsconsole-en-compute_hosts-dita-1">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Compute Hosts</title>
   <para>This page allows you to view your Compute Host resources.</para>
        <para/>
        
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Search and Sort</bridgehead>
      <para>The search bar allows you to filter the alarm definitions you want to view. Type and
                Status are examples of alarm criteria that can be specified. Additionally, you can
                filter by typing in text similar to searching by keywords.</para>
      <para>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of alarm definitions to
                delete:</para>
      <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Select Visible</guilabel> allows you to delete the selected alarm
                    definitions from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Select All</guilabel> allows you to delete all the alarms from the
                    table.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Clear Selection</guilabel> allows you to clear all the selections
                    currently selected from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
      <para>You can display the alarm definitions by grid, list or table views by selecting the
                corresponding icons next to the <guilabel>Sort By</guilabel> control.</para>
      <para>The <guilabel>Sort By</guilabel> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which
                you can sort the compute nodes. Alternatively, you can also sort using the column
                headers in the table.</para>
      <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Name</guilabel> displays the compute nodes by the name
                    assigned to it when it was created.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by State</guilabel> displays the current state of the compute
                    node.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Type</guilabel> displays the type of compute node.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Status</guilabel> displays the current status of the compute
                    node.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by CPU (Allocated)</guilabel>
            </para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Memory (Allocated)</guilabel>
            </para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Storage (Allocated)</guilabel>
            </para>
         </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
   
    </section>
