<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="idg-opsconsole-en-alarm_definitions-dita-1">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Alarm Definition</title>
        
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Search and Sort</bridgehead>
      <para>The search bar allows you to filter the alarm definitions you want to view. Type and
                Status are examples of alarm criteria that can be specified. Additionally, you can
                filter by typing in text similar to searching by keywords.</para>
      <para>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of alarm definitions to
                delete:</para>
      <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Select Visible</guilabel> allows you to delete the selected alarm
                    definitions from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Select All</guilabel> allows you to delete all the alarms from the
                    table.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Clear Selection</guilabel> allows you to clear all the selections
                    currently selected from the table.</para>
         </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
      <para>You can display the alarm definitions by grid, list or table views by selecting the
                corresponding icons next to the <guilabel>Sort By</guilabel> control.</para>
      <para>The <guilabel>Sort By</guilabel> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which
                you can sort the alarm definitions. Alternatively, you can also sort using the
                column headers in the table.</para>
      <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Name</guilabel> displays the alarm definitions by the name
                    assigned to it when it was created.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Description</guilabel> displays the descriptive details of
                    the alarm definitions.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>
               <guilabel>Sort by Notifications Enabled</guilabel> displays the alarm
                    definitions' notification criteria, such as whether enabled for certain types of
                    alarms and how the notification is disseminated (by Email, Web, etc.)</para>
         </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
   
        
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Create Alarm Definitions</bridgehead>
      <para>The <guilabel>Create Alarm Definition</guilabel> button beside the search bar
                allows you to create a new alarm definition.</para>
      <para>To create a new alarm definition:</para>
      <orderedlist>
                <listitem>
            <para>Click the <guilabel>Create Alarm Definitions</guilabel> button to open a
                    separate window that allows you to configure a new alarm.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>In the Create Alarm Definition window, type a name for the alarm in the
                        <guilabel>Name</guilabel> text field. The name is required and may be up
                    to 255 characters in length consisting of letters, numbers, or special
                    characters.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>Provide some useful details about the alarm in the
                        <guilabel>Description</guilabel> text field (optional).</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>Set the severity level for the alarm in the <guilabel>Severity</guilabel>
                    drop-down menu. The severity level is optional but subjective, so choose the
                    level appropriate for prioritizing the handling of alarms when they occur.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>Although not required, in order to specify how to receive notifications, you
                    must be able to select the method(s) of notification (Email, Web, API, etc.)
                    from the list of options in the Alarm Notifications area. If none are available
                    to choose from, you must first configure them in the Notifications Methods
                    window. Refer to the Notification Methods help page for further
                    instructions.</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>To turn the notifications on for the alarm, click to select <guilabel>Enable
                        Notifications</guilabel>. </para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>Apply the following rules to your alarm by using the Alarm Expression form: </para>
            <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem>
                  <para>
                     <guilabel>Function</guilabel>: determines the output value from a
                            supplied input value. </para>
               </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                  <para>
                     <guilabel>Metric</guilabel>: applies a pre-defined means of measuring
                            whatever aspect of the alarm.</para>
               </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                  <para>
                     <guilabel>Dimension(s)</guilabel>: identifies which aspect (Hostname,
                            Region, and Service) of the alarm you want to monitor.</para>
               </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                  <para>
                     <guilabel>Relational Operator</guilabel>: specifies the operator for
                            how you want the alarm to trigger.</para>
               </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                  <para>
                     <guilabel>Value</guilabel>: determines the numeric threshold
                            associated with the operator you specified.</para>
               </listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>Select whether you want to apply the expressions
                        <guilabel>Individually</guilabel> or <guilabel>As a group</guilabel> to
                    the previously selected dimension(s).</para>
         </listitem>
                <listitem>
            <para>When done creating the alarm, click <guilabel>Create Alarm</guilabel>.</para>
         </listitem>
            </orderedlist>
      <para>After the alarm definition saves, it can take roughly one minute for the alarm
                definition to appear in the chart.</para>
   
    </section>
