<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1509">
<title>HPE Helion <tm tmtype="reg">OpenStack</tm> Community: Logging into the Dashboards</title>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<othermeta name="layout" content="default"/>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>
<!--PUBLISHED-->
 <!--./community/community.dashboard.launch.md-->
 <!--permalink: /helion/community/dashboard/login/--></p>
<p>The <xref href="../community/community.dashboard.how-works.dita" >HPE Helion OpenStack Community dashboards</xref> are browser-based user interfaces that allow you to interact with the HPE Helion OpenStack Commercial overcloud.</p>
<p>To log into the Helion dashboard:</p>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Ask the cloud operator for the host name or public IP address from which you can access the dashboard, and for your user name and password.</p>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> When accessing Horizon in a virtual environment, use the public network address, not the management network address. In a default configuration, the URL is http://192.0.8.2.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Open a web browser that has JavaScript and cookies enabled.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>In the address bar, enter the host name or IP address for the dashboard.</p>

<p>
<b>Note:</b> If a certificate warning appears when you try to access the URL for the first time, a self-signed certificate is in use, which is not considered trustworthy by default. Verify the certificate or add an exception in the browser to bypass the warning.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>On the Log In page, enter your user name and password, and click <b>Sign In</b>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>If you are a non-admin user, select a project from the list at the top of the screen.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>
  <xref href="#topic1509"> Return to Top </xref>
</p>
</body>
</topic>
