README.adoc, before:

= SUSE OpenStack Cloud Documentation

This is the source for the official SUSE OpenStack Cloud documentation.

The following guides are available:

* SUSE OpenStack Cloud:
** Deployment Guide
** Operations Guide

* SUSE OpenStack Cloud Crowbar:
** Deployment Guide
** Operations Guide
** Crowbar Proof of Concept Guide

* SUSE OpenStack Cloud, General:
** Security Guide
** Supplement to Administrator Guide and User Guide

These guides are all maintained and created in this GitHub
repository. Released versions of these guides have been published at
https://www.suse.com/documentation/.

The following guides are built directly from upstream OpenStack sources:

** Administration Guide
** User Guide

These guides are all maintained upstream in the various OpenStack
project repositories. Released versions of the upstream OpenStack guides
have been built using the `suse_sphinx_theme`.

Released versions of these guides have also been published at
https://www.suse.com/documentation/.

Branches
--------

***On Jun 21, 2019, we changed to a new branching model. This entailed having to force push the
master branch. ***

* *Use the master branch* as the basis of your commits of new feature branches.

* The *develop branch has been deleted* on the server. Do not push to the `develop` branch.
  Your changes may go lost in the medium term and never make it to the proper branch.

* If you *created* a local clone or GitHub fork of this repo *before June 21, 2019, do the following*:
+
[arabic]
. Make sure that your `master` and `develop` branches do not contain any important changes.
  If there are on either branch, export them using `git format-patch` or put them on a
  different branch.
. Update the repo: `git fetch`
  (To also delete references to branches that do not exist anymore on the server, you can use
  `git fetch -p`.)
. Go to the master branch: `git checkout master`
. Hard-reset the state of the master branch to the state on GitHub: `git reset --hard origin/master`
. Delete your local develop branch: `git branch -D develop`


.Overview of important branches
[options="header"]
|============================================================
| Name                             | Purpose
| `master`                         | Current working branch
| `maintenance/cloud_1.0`          | Maintenance branch for SC 1.0
| `maintenance/cloud_2.0`          | Maintenance branch for SC 2.0
| `maintenance/cloud_3.0`          | Maintenance branch for SC 3.0
| `maintenance/cloud_4`            | Maintenance branch for SC 4
| `maintenance/cloud_5`            | Maintenance branch for SC 5
| `maintenance/openstack_cloud_6`  | Maintenance branch for SOC 6
| `maintenance/cloud_7`            | Maintenance branch for SOC 7
| `maintenance/cloud_8`            | Maintenance branch for SOC 8
| `maintenance/cloud_9`            | Maintenance branch for SOC 9
|============================================================


Contributing
-------------

Thank you for contributing to this repo. Please adhere to the following guidelines when creating a pull request:

. Make your pull request against the _master_ branch (not develop) if you are contributing to the most recent release (currently
  Cloud 10). The _master_ branch is protected and cannot be merged without review.

. If you are contributing to a previous release, please see _maintenance/cloud_<RELEASENUMBER>_. This branch is also
  protected and cannot be merged without review.

. Your contributions can be in ASCIIdoc `.adoc` or DocBook XML `.xml`.

. Commit messages must conform to the following:
.. Line lengths must be 80 characters or less.
.. Commit body content is required.
.. The subject line cannot start with "SOC".
.. At the end of the subject line, there must be a bug reference or an
   explanation for a missing bug reference:
*** Bugzilla or Jira references: (bsc#0123456) or (SOC-0123456)
*** Multiple Bugzilla or Jira references: (bsc#0123456),(SOC-0123456)
*** One of (trivial), (typo), or (noref). No combinations are allowed.

. Make sure all validation (Travis CI) checks are passed, and tag relevant SMEs from the development team (if applicable)
  and members of the Cloud doc team: Carl Symons (@csymons-suse), Dmitri Popov (@dmpop) or Alexandra Settle (@asettle).

  **NOTE:** If your pull request has multiple files and reorganization changes, please build locally using DAPS or daps2docker
  (see instructions below) to verify and build the files. Travis CI only validates, and does not ensure the XML builds
  are correct.

. Implement any required changes, or fix any merge conflicts if relevant. If you have any questions, ping a documentation team
  member in #cloud-documentation on RocketChat.

. Once a review has been received from a documentation team member and any other SMEs, please merge your own PR.

  **NOTE:** If you need something merged ASAP, and a documentation team member is not available to re-review, but you have
  implemented any necessary changes, please use your best judgement and merge your own PR if STRICTLY NECESSARY. Alert
  a team member by pinging them in the #cloud-documentation channel.

Building documentation
----------------------

If you're contributing to the cloud documentation in this repo and want to build using our DAPS tooling, see the DAPS Quickstart for more information: https://opensuse.github.io/daps/doc/art.daps.quick.html

If you are interested in building DAPS documentation (defaulting to HTML and PDF), you can utilize
our daps2docker project: https://github.com/openSUSE/daps2docker

1. Install Docker
2. Clone the daps2docker repository.
3. Run  `./daps2docker.sh /PATH/TO/DOC-DIR` or `/daps2docker.sh /PATH/TO/DC-FILE`.

Building upstream docs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you're required to build the upstream Administration and User Guides, you can build and view each individual guide upstream: https://docs.openstack.org/doc-contrib-guide/docs-builds.html 

If you want to build the SUSE version, equivalent to what is published at at suse.com/documentation, perform the following:

1. Clone https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/doc-cloud-upstream
2. Change into the `/scripts/` directory:
   
   $ cd scripts
   
3. Run `./gen_docs.sh`

   This process clones every repository required, and builds them using the `suse_sphinx_theme`. You need to allocate at
   least an hour for the process to complete.
   
4. You can find the finished product in the `/scripts/build/` folder.

Quick start building the docs
-----------------------------
Assuming `daps` is already installed, call

 daps -d DC-suse-openstack-cloud-crowbar-operations html

You can build other DC files and also other formats (e.g. PDF) of course.

Commit message:

Updating README with link to doc-cloud-upstream README (noref)
Added instructions on how to build upstream docs in appropriate
README here:
https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/doc-cloud-upstream/pull/3/

README.adoc, after:

= SUSE OpenStack Cloud Documentation

This is the source for the official SUSE OpenStack Cloud documentation.

The following guides are available:

* SUSE OpenStack Cloud:
** Deployment Guide
** Operations Guide

* SUSE OpenStack Cloud Crowbar:
** Deployment Guide
** Operations Guide
** Crowbar Proof of Concept Guide

* SUSE OpenStack Cloud, General:
** Security Guide
** Supplement to Administrator Guide and User Guide

These guides are all maintained and created in this GitHub
repository. Released versions of these guides have been published at
https://www.suse.com/documentation/.

The following guides are built directly from upstream OpenStack sources:

** Administration Guide
** User Guide

These guides are all maintained upstream in the various OpenStack
project repositories. Released versions of the upstream OpenStack guides
have been built using the `suse_sphinx_theme`.

Released versions of these guides have also been published at
https://www.suse.com/documentation/.

Branches
--------

***On Jun 21, 2019, we changed to a new branching model. This entailed having to force push the
master branch. ***

* *Use the master branch* as the basis of your commits of new feature branches.

* The *develop branch has been deleted* on the server. Do not push to the `develop` branch.
  Your changes may go lost in the medium term and never make it to the proper branch.

* If you *created* a local clone or GitHub fork of this repo *before June 21, 2019, do the following*:
+
[arabic]
. Make sure that your `master` and `develop` branches do not contain any important changes.
  If there are on either branch, export them using `git format-patch` or put them on a
  different branch.
. Update the repo: `git fetch`
  (To also delete references to branches that do not exist anymore on the server, you can use
  `git fetch -p`.)
. Go to the master branch: `git checkout master`
. Hard-reset the state of the master branch to the state on GitHub: `git reset --hard origin/master`
. Delete your local develop branch: `git branch -D develop`


.Overview of important branches
[options="header"]
|============================================================
| Name                             | Purpose
| `master`                         | Current working branch
| `maintenance/cloud_1.0`          | Maintenance branch for SC 1.0
| `maintenance/cloud_2.0`          | Maintenance branch for SC 2.0
| `maintenance/cloud_3.0`          | Maintenance branch for SC 3.0
| `maintenance/cloud_4`            | Maintenance branch for SC 4
| `maintenance/cloud_5`            | Maintenance branch for SC 5
| `maintenance/openstack_cloud_6`  | Maintenance branch for SOC 6
| `maintenance/cloud_7`            | Maintenance branch for SOC 7
| `maintenance/cloud_8`            | Maintenance branch for SOC 8
| `maintenance/cloud_9`            | Maintenance branch for SOC 9
|============================================================


Contributing
-------------

Thank you for contributing to this repo. Please adhere to the following guidelines when creating a pull request:

. Make your pull request against the _master_ branch (not develop) if you are contributing to the most recent release (currently
  Cloud 10). The _master_ branch is protected and cannot be merged without review.

. If you are contributing to a previous release, please see _maintenance/cloud_<RELEASENUMBER>_. This branch is also
  protected and cannot be merged without review.

. Your contributions can be in ASCIIdoc `.adoc` or DocBook XML `.xml`.

. Commit messages must conform to the following:
.. Line lengths must be 80 characters or less.
.. Commit body content is required.
.. The subject line cannot start with "SOC".
.. At the end of the subject line, there must be a bug reference or an
   explanation for a missing bug reference:
*** Bugzilla or Jira references: (bsc#0123456) or (SOC-0123456)
*** Multiple Bugzilla or Jira references: (bsc#0123456),(SOC-0123456)
*** One of (trivial), (typo), or (noref). No combinations are allowed.

. Make sure all validation (Travis CI) checks are passed, and tag relevant SMEs from the development team (if applicable)
  and members of the Cloud doc team: Carl Symons (@csymons-suse), Dmitri Popov (@dmpop) or Alexandra Settle (@asettle).

  **NOTE:** If your pull request has multiple files and reorganization changes, please build locally using DAPS or daps2docker
  (see instructions below) to verify and build the files. Travis CI only validates, and does not ensure the XML builds
  are correct.

. Implement any required changes, or fix any merge conflicts if relevant. If you have any questions, ping a documentation team
  member in #cloud-documentation on RocketChat.

. Once a review has been received from a documentation team member and any other SMEs, please merge your own PR.

  **NOTE:** If you need something merged ASAP, and a documentation team member is not available to re-review, but you have
  implemented any necessary changes, please use your best judgement and merge your own PR if STRICTLY NECESSARY. Alert
  a team member by pinging them in the #cloud-documentation channel.

Building documentation
----------------------

If you're contributing to the cloud documentation in this repo and want to build using our DAPS tooling, see the DAPS Quickstart for more information: https://opensuse.github.io/daps/doc/art.daps.quick.html

If you are interested in building DAPS documentation (defaulting to HTML and PDF), you can utilize
our daps2docker project: https://github.com/openSUSE/daps2docker

1. Install Docker
2. Clone the daps2docker repository.
3. Run  `./daps2docker.sh /PATH/TO/DOC-DIR` or `/daps2docker.sh /PATH/TO/DC-FILE`.

Building upstream docs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you're required to build the upstream Administration and User Guides, you can build and view each individual guide upstream: https://docs.openstack.org/doc-contrib-guide/docs-builds.html 

If you want to build the SUSE version, equivalent to what is published at at suse.com/documentation, see the instructions on how to build here: https://github.com/SUSE-Cloud/doc-cloud-upstream/README

Quick start building the docs
-----------------------------
Assuming `daps` is already installed, call

 daps -d DC-suse-openstack-cloud-crowbar-operations html

You can build other DC files and also other formats (e.g. PDF) of course.
