<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="notification_methods">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Notification Methods</title>
    <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">This page allows you to define notification methods that are used by the alarms. By
        default, notification methods are sorted by name and in a table format.</shortdesc></abstract>

    <body>
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        <section>
            <title>Search and Sort</title>
            <p>The search bar allows you to filter the notification methods you want to view. </p>
            <p>The checkbox allows you to select (or deselect) a group of notification methods to
                delete:</p>
            <ul>
                <li><uicontrol>Select Visible</uicontrol> allows you to delete the selected
                    notification methods from the table.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Select All</uicontrol> allows you to delete all the notification
                    methods from the table.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Clear Selection</uicontrol> allows you to clear all the selections
                    currently selected from the table.</li>
            </ul>
            <p>You can display the notification methods by grid, list or table views by selecting
                the corresponding icons next to the <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control.</p>
            <p>The <uicontrol>Sort By</uicontrol> control contains a drop-down list of ways by which
                you can sort the alarm definitions. Alternatively, you can also sort using the
                column headers in the table.</p>
            <ul>
                <li><uicontrol>Sort by Status</uicontrol> displays the notification methods by their
                    status.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Sort by Metric</uicontrol> displays the descriptive details of the
                    alarm definitions.</li>
                <li><uicontrol>Sort by Severity</uicontrol> displays the alarm definitions'
                    notification criteria, such as whether enabled for certain types of alarms and
                    how the notification is disseminated (by Email, Web, etc.)</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Create Notification Methods</title>
            <p>The <uicontrol>Create Notification Methods</uicontrol> button beside the search bar
                allows you to create a new notification method.</p>
            <p>To create a new notification method:</p>
            <ol>
                <li>Click the <uicontrol>Create Notification Method</uicontrol> button to open a
                    separate window that allows you to configure a new notification method.</li>
                <li>In the Create Notification Method window, type a name for the notification in
                    the <uicontrol>Name</uicontrol> text field. The name is required and may be up
                    to 255 characters in length consisting of letters, numbers, or special
                    characters.</li>
                <li>Select a <uicontrol>Type</uicontrol> in the drop down. Choices are:. <ul>
                        <li><uicontrol>URL</uicontrol> allows you to enter in an internet address
                            Also referred to as a <uicontrol>Web Hook</uicontrol>.</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>Email</uicontrol> allows you to enter in an email address.
                            See Note Below.</li>
                        <li><uicontrol>PagerDuty</uicontrol> allows you to enter in a PagerDuty
                            address.</li>
                    </ul></li>
                <li>In the <uicontrol>Address/Key</uicontrol> text field, enter in a valid value
                    based on the type you chose.</li>
                <li>When done creating the notification method, click <uicontrol>Create Notification
                        Method</uicontrol>. </li>
            </ol>
            <note>For this method to work you need to have a SMTP server specified.</note>
        </section>
        <section>
            <p>After the notification method saves, the Notification Methods window refreshes with
                the new notification method populated in the table.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
