<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="example_configurations">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Example Configurations</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    
    <p>The <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> system ships with a collection of pre-qualified example
      configurations. These are designed to help you to get up and running quickly with a minimum
      number of configuration changes.</p>
    
    <p>The <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> input model allows a wide variety of configuration parameters
      that may, at first glance, appear daunting. The example configurations are designed to
      simplify this process by providing pre-built and pre-qualified examples that need only a
      minimum number of modifications to get started.</p>

    
    
    <section id="example_configs"><title><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> Example Configurations</title>
      <p>This section briefly describes the various example configurations and their capabilities.
        It also describes in detail, for the entry-scale-kvm-vsa example, how you can adapt the
        input model to work in your environment.</p>
      <!--<p><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> ships with two classes of sample cloud models: examples
        and tech-preview. The models in the examples directory have been qualified by our Quality
        Engineering team, while the tech-preview models are more experimental.</p>-->
      <p>The following pre-qualified examples are shipped with <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"
        />:</p>
      
      
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_examples">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Name</entry>
              <entry>Location</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            
            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="entryscale_kvm_vsa">Entry-scale KVM with VSA model</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/entry-scale-kvm-vsa</codeph></entry>                           
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="entryscale_kvm_dedicated">Entry-scale KVM with VSA model with Dedicated Cluster for Metering, Monitoring, and
                Logging</xref> </entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/entry-scale-kvm-vsa-mml</codeph></entry>                           
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="entryscale_kvm_ceph">Entry-scale KVM with Ceph model</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/entry-scale-kvm-ceph</codeph></entry>                           
            </row>            
            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="midscale_kvm_vsa">Mid-scale KVM with VSA model</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/mid-scale-kvm-vsa</codeph></entry>                           
            </row>           
            
            
            
            
            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="entryscale_esx_kvm_vsa">Entry-scale ESX, KVM and VSA model</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/entry-scale-esx-kvm-vsa</codeph></entry>                           
            </row>  
            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="entryscale_esx_kvm_vsa_mml">Entry-scale ESX, KVM and VSA model  with Dedicated Cluster for Metering, Monitoring, and
                Logging</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/entry-scale-esx-kvm-vsa-mml</codeph></entry>                           
            </row>       
            
            
            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="entryscale_swift">Entry-scale Swift-only model</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/entry-scale-swift</codeph></entry>                           
            </row>



            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="entryscale_ironic">Entry-scale Cloud with Ironic Flat Network</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/entry-scale-ironic-flat-network</codeph></entry>                           
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry><xref keyref="entryscale_ironic_multi_tenancy">Entry-scale Cloud with Ironic Multi-Tenancy</xref></entry>
              <entry><codeph>~/helion/examples/entry-scale-ironic-multi-tenancy</codeph></entry>
            </row>
            
            

            
            
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>

      <p>The entry-scale systems are designed to provide an entry-level solution that can be scaled
        from a small number of nodes to a moderately high node count (approximately 100 compute
        nodes, for example).</p>
      <p>In the mid-scale model, the cloud control plane is subdivided into a number of dedicated
        service clusters to provide more processing power for individual control plane elements.
        This enables a greater number of resources to be supported (compute nodes, Swift object
        servers). This model also shows how a segmented network can be expressed in the <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos"/> model.</p>
    </section>
    
    




    <section id="modifying"><title>Modifying the Entry-scale KVM with VSA Model for Your Environment</title>
      <p>This section covers the changes that need to be made to the input model to deploy and run
        this cloud model in your environment.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref keyref="localizing_inputmodel">Localizing the Input Model</xref></li>
        <li><xref keyref="customizing_inputmodel">Customizing the Input Model</xref></li>
      </ul>
    </section>


    <section id="alternative"><title>Alternative Configurations</title>
      <p>In <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> there are alternative configurations that we recommend
        for specific purposes and this section we will outline them.</p>
   
      
      <ul>
        <li><xref keyref="entryscale_kvm_ceph_onenetwork">Entry-scale KVM with Ceph Model with One Network</xref></li>
        <li><xref keyref="entryscale_kvm_ceph_twonetwork">Entry-scale KVM with Ceph Model with Two Networks</xref></li>
        <li><xref keyref="standalone_deployer">Using a Standalone Lifecycle-Manager Node</xref></li>
        <li><xref keyref="without_dvr">Configuring <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> without DVR</xref></li>
        <li><xref keyref="without_l3agent">Configuring <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> with Provider VLANs and Physical Routers
          Only</xref></li>
        <li><xref keyref="twosystems">Considerations When Installing Two Systems on One Subnet</xref></li>            
      </ul>      
    </section>








    




  
  </body>
</topic>
