<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_jsc_qps_qt">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Enabling Default Backups of the Control Plane to
    an SSH Target</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section>This topic describes how you can set up an external server as a backup server in case you lose access to your cloud servers that store the default backups.</section>
    <section><title>Default Backup and Restore</title><p>As part of the installation procedure in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, automatic
        backup/restore jobs are set up to back up to Swift via the Freezer scheduler component of
        the backup and restore service. The backup jobs perform scheduled backups of Helion
        OpenStack control plane data (files/directories/db). The restore jobs can be used to restore
        appropriate control plane data. Additional automatic jobs can be added to backup/restore
        from the secure shell (SSH) server that you set up/designate. It is recommended that you set
        up SSH backups so that in the event that you lose all of your control plane nodes at once,
        you have a backup on remote servers that you can use to restore the control plane nodes.
        Note that you do not have to restore from the SSH location if only one or two control plane
        nodes are lost. In that case, they can be recovered from the data on the remaining control
        plane node following the restore procedures in <xref
          href="../operations/maintenance/controller/recovering_controller_nodes.dita#recovering_controller_nodes"
          >Recovering the Cloud Control Plane</xref>. That document also explains how to recover
        using your remote server SSH backups.</p> 
      <p>While control plane backups to Swift are set up automatically, you must use the following
        procedure to set up SSH backups.</p></section>
    <section><title>Setting up SSH backups</title>
      <p>By default, during <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> deployment, backup jobs
        are automatically deployed to Swift, the MySQL database, the lifecycle manager, and Swift rings.
        Restore jobs are also deployed for convenience. It is more secure to store those backups
        also outside of the Helion infrastructure. If you provide all the values required in the
        following file, jobs will also be deployed to backup and restore to/from an SSH server of
        your choice:<codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/config/freezer/ssh_credentials.yml</codeblock>
      </p></section>
    <section><title>Backing up your Helion control plane to an SSH server</title>
      <p>You must provide the following connection information to this server:<ul>
          <li>The SSH server's IP address</li> 
          <li>The SSH server's port to connect to (usually port 22). You may want to confirm how to
            open the port on the Helion firewall.</li>
          <li>The user to connect to the SSH server as</li>
          <li>The SSH private key authorized to connect to that user (see below for details of how
            to set up one if it is not already done)</li>
          <li>The directory where you wish to store the backup on that server</li>
        </ul>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section><title>Setting up SSH for backups before deployment</title>
      <p>Before running the configuration processor, edit the following file:
        <codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/config/freezer/ssh_credentials.yml</codeblock>Please be advised
        that all parameters are mandatory, and take care in providing the SSH private key.</p></section>
    <section><title>Setting up SSH for backups after deployment</title><p>If you already deployed your
        cloud and forgot to configure SSH backups, or if you wish to modify the settings for where
        the backups are stored, follow the following instructions:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Edit the following file:
          <codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/config/freezer/ssh_credentials.yml</codeblock>Please be
          advised that all parameters are mandatory, and take care in providing the SSH private
          key.</li>
        <li>Run the following commands:
          <codeblock>cd ~/helion
git add -A
git commit -m "My config"
cd ~/helion/hos/ansible/
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml
cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts _freezer_manage_jobs.yml</codeblock>This
          will deploy the SSH key and configure SSH backup and restore jobs for you. It may take
          some time before the backups occur.</li>
      </ol></section>
    <section><title>Preparing the server that will store the backup</title><p>In this example, the
        information is as follows: <ul>
          <li>IP: 192.168.100.42</li>
          <li>Port: 22</li>
          <li>User: backupuser</li>
          <li>Target directory for backups: /mnt/backups/</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Please replace these values to meet your own requirements, as appropriate.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Connect to the server: <codeblock>ssh -p 22 root@192.168.100.42</codeblock></li>
        <li>Create the user:
          <codeblock>useradd backupuser --create-home --home-dir /mnt/backups/</codeblock></li>
        <li>Switch to that user:<codeblock>su backupuser</codeblock></li>
        <li>Create the SSH keypair:
          <codeblock>ssh-keygen -t rsa
# Just leave the default for the first question and don't set any passphrase
> Generating public/private rsa key pair.
> Enter file in which to save the key (/mnt/backups//.ssh/id_rsa): 
> Created directory '/mnt/backups//.ssh'.
> Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase): 
> Enter same passphrase again: 
> Your identification has been saved in /mnt/backups//.ssh/id_rsa
> Your public key has been saved in /mnt/backups//.ssh/id_rsa.pub
> The key fingerprint is:
> a9:08:ae:ee:3c:57:62:31:d2:52:77:a7:4e:37:d1:28 backupuser@padawan-ccp-c0-m1-mgmt
> The key's randomart image is:
> +---[RSA 2048]----+
> |          o      |
> |   . . E + .     |
> |  o . . + .      |
> | o +   o +       |
> |  + o o S .      |
> | . + o o         |
> |  o + .          |
> |.o .             |
> |++o              |
> +-----------------+</codeblock></li>
        <li>Add the public key to the list of the keys authorized to connect to that user on this
          server:
          <codeblock>cat /mnt/backups/.ssh/id_rsa.pub >> /mnt/backups/.ssh/authorized_keys</codeblock></li>
        <li>View the private key. This is what you will use for the backup configuration:
          <codeblock>cat /mnt/backups/.ssh/id_rsa
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
MIIEogIBAAKCAQEAvjwKu6f940IVGHpUj3ffl3eKXACgVr3L5s9UJnb15+zV3K5L
BZuor8MLvwtskSkgdXNrpPZhNCsWSkryJff5I335Jhr/e5o03Yy+RqIMrJAIa0X5
...
iBKVKGPhOnn4ve3dDqy3q7fS5sivTqCrpaYtByJmPrcJNjb2K7VMLNvgLamK/AbL
qpSTZjicKZCCl+J2+8lrKAaDWqWtIjSUs29kCL78QmaPOgEvfsw=
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
      <p>You server is now ready to receive backups. If you wish, you can check our advice on how to
        secure it.</p></section>
    <section><title>Opening ports in the cloud firewall </title><p> There is a strict policy of
      firewalling deployed with <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>. If you use a non-standard SSH port, you may need to
        specifically open it by using the following process:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>When creating your model, edit the following
          file:<codeblock>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/firewall_rules.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>You must add a new element in the firewall-rules list, such as:
          <codeblock>
- name: BACKUP
  # network-groups is a list of all the network group names
  # that the rules apply to
  network-groups:
  - MANAGEMENT
  rules:
  - type: allow
    # range of remote addresses in CIDR format that this
    # rule applies to
    remote-ip-prefix:  
    port-range-min: 
    port-range-max: 
    # protocol must be one of: null, tcp, udp or icmp
    protocol: tcp</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section><title>Securing your SSH backup server</title><p>You can do the following to harden an SSH server (these techniques are well documented on the internet):<ul>
          <li>Disable root login</li>
          <li>Move SSH to a non-default port (that is, something other than 22)</li>
          <li>Disable password login (only allow RSA keys)</li>
          <li>Disable SSH v1</li>
          <li>Authorize Secure File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) only for that user (disable SSH
            shell)</li>
      <li>Firewall SSH traffic to ensure it comes from the <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> address range</li>
          <li>Install a Fail2Ban solution</li>
          <li>Restrict users that are allowed to SSH</li>
        </ul></p><p>Remove the key pair generated earlier on the backup server: the only thing needed is the
        .ssh/authorized_keys. You can remove the .ssh/id_rsa and .ssh/id_rsa.pub files. Be sure to
        save a backup of them somewhere.</p></section>
    <section><title>General tips</title><ul>
        <li>Take care when sizing the directory that will receive the backup. </li>
        <li>Monitor the space left on that directory.</li>
        <li>Keep the system up to date on that server.</li>
      </ul></section>
  </body>
</topic>
