<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="postinstall_checklist">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Other Common Post-Installation Tasks</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">This is a collection of other common post-install
      tasks such as how to determine your admin user credentials and how to configure your
      environmental variables to start using the command-line tools.</shortdesc></abstract>
  <body>
    <!--not tested-->
    <!--Needs Work-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>


    <section id="creds"><title>Determining Your User Credentials</title>
      <p>On your lifecycle manager, in the
          <codeph>~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible/group_vars/</codeph> directory you will find
        several files. In the one labeled as first control plane node you can locate the user
        credentials for both the Administrator user (<codeph>admin</codeph>) and your Demo user
          (<codeph>demo</codeph>) which you will use to perform many other actions on your
        cloud.</p>
      <p>For example, if you are using the Entry-scale KVM with VSA model and used the default
        naming scheme given in the example configuration files, you can use these commands on your
        lifecycle manager to GREP for your user credentials:</p>
      <p><b>Administrator</b></p>
      <codeblock>grep keystone_admin_pwd entry-scale-kvm-vsa-control-plane-1</codeblock>
      <p><b>Demo</b></p>
      <codeblock>grep keystone_demo_pwd entry-scale-kvm-vsa-control-plane-1</codeblock>
    </section>


    <section id="env_vars"><title>Configure your lifecycle manager to use the command-line
        tools</title>
      <p>This playbook will do a series of steps to update your environment variables for your cloud
        so you can use command-line clients.</p>
      <p>Run the following command, which will replace <codeph>/etc/hosts</codeph> on the lifecycle
        manager:</p>
      <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts cloud-client-setup.yml</codeblock>
      <p>As the /etc/hosts file no longer has entries for Helion lifecycle management, sudo commands
        may become a bit slower. To fix this issue, once this step is complete, add "hlm" after
        "127.0.0.1 localhost". The result will look like this:</p>
      <codeblock>...
# Localhost Information
127.0.0.1 localhost hlm</codeblock>
    </section>

    <section id="home_dir">
      <title>Protect home directory</title>
      <p>The home directory of the user that owns the <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> scripts 
        should not be world readable.  Change the permissions so that they are only readable 
        by the owner:
        <codeblock>chmod 0700 ~</codeblock>
      </p>
    </section>

    <section id="sshkeys">
      <title>Back up Your SSH Keys</title>
      <p>As part of the cloud deployment setup process, SSH keys to access the systems are generated
        and stored in <codeph>~/.ssh</codeph> on your lifecycle manager.</p>
      <p>These SSH keys allow access to the subsequently deployed systems and should be included in
        the list of content to be archived in any backup strategy.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section id="endpoints"><title>Retrieving Service Endpoints</title>
      <!--  TODO add some content here  <p>text</p>-->
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to your lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Source the keystone admin creds:<p>
            <codeblock>unset OS_TENANT_NAME
source ~/keystone.osrc</codeblock>
          </p></li>
        <li>Using the OpenStack command-line tool you can then query the Keystone service for your endpoints:<p>
            <codeblock>openstack endpoint list</codeblock>
          </p><note type="tip">You can use <codeph>openstack -h</codeph> to access the client help
            file and a full list of commands.</note></li>
      </ol>
      <p>To learn more about Keystone, see <xref
          href="../operations/configuring/identity/identity_overview.dita">Keystone
        Overview</xref></p>
    </section>
    <section id="other"><title>Other Common Post-Installation Tasks</title>
      <p>Here are the links to other common post-installation tasks that either the Administrator or
        Demo users can perform:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref href="../operations/compute/enabling_resize.dita"/></li>
        <li><xref href="../operations/create_extnet.dita"/></li>
        <li><xref href="../operations/upload_image.dita"/></li>
        <li><xref href="../userguide/create_network.dita"/></li>
        <li><xref href="../operations/objectstorage/swift_dispersion_report.dita"/></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
