<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="rebootNodes">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Rolling Reboot of the Cloud</title>
    
    <para>If you have a planned maintenance and need to bring down your entire cloud and restart
        services while minimizing downtime, follow the steps here to safely restart your cloud. If
        you don't mind your services being down, then another option for planned maintenance can be
        found at <xref linkend="stop_restart"/>.</para>

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Recommended node reboot order</bridgehead>
      <para>To ensure that rebooted nodes reintegrate into the cluster, the key is having enough time
        between controller reboots.</para>
      <para>The recommended way to achieve this is as follows:</para>
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Reboot controller nodes one-by-one with a suitable interval in between. If you alternate
          between controllers and compute nodes you will gain more time between the controller
          reboots. </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Reboot of compute nodes (if present in your cloud).</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Reboot of Swift nodes (if present in your cloud).</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Reboot of VSA nodes (if present in your cloud)</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Reboot of Ceph nodes (if present in your cloud).</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Reboot of ESX nodes (if present in your cloud).</para>
         </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
   

    <para id="idg-operations-maintenance-reboot_cloud_rolling-dita-4">
      
      
    </para>



    <formalpara id="rebootControllers">
      <title>Rebooting controller nodes</title>
      <para/>
   </formalpara>


    <formalpara id="rebootCompute">
      <title>Rebooting compute nodes</title>
      <para/>
   </formalpara>



    <formalpara id="rebootSwift">
      <title>Rebooting Swift nodes</title>
      <para/>
   </formalpara>


    <formalpara id="vsa">
      <title>Rebooting VSA nodes</title>
      <para/>
   </formalpara>

    <formalpara id="reboot_ceph">
      <title>Rebooting ceph</title>
      <para/>
   </formalpara>

    <formalpara id="getStatus">
      <title>Get list of status playbooks</title>
      <para/>
   </formalpara>


  </section>
