<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><section id="monasca_integration_overview">
   <title>Monasca Monitoring Integration Overview</title>
        <para>Monasca, the <phrase/> monitoring service, collects information
            about your cloud's systems, and allows you to create alarm definitions based on these
            measurements. Monasca-agent is the component that collects metrics such as metric
            storage and alarm thresholding and forwards them to the monasca-api for further
            processing.</para>
        <para>With a small amount of configuration, you can use the detection and check plugins that
            are provided with your cloud to monitor integrated third-party components. In addition,
            you can write custom plugins and integrate them with the existing monitoring service. </para>
        <para>Find instructions for customizing existing plugins to monitor third-party components in
            the <emphasis role="bold">Configuring Check Plugins</emphasis> section. </para>
        <para>Find instructions for installing and configuring new custom plugins in the <emphasis role="bold">Writing
                Custom Plugins</emphasis> section.</para>
        <para>You can also use existing alarm definitions, as well as create new alarm definitions that
            relate to a custom plugin or metric. Instructions for defining new alarm definitions are
            in the <emphasis role="bold">Configuring Alarm Definitions</emphasis> section.</para>
        <para>You can use the Operations Console and Monasca CLI to list all of the alarms,
            alarm-definitions, and metrics that exist on your cloud.</para>
    </section>
