<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="swift_ring_management">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Managing Swift Rings</title>
    
    
    <para>Swift rings are a machine-readable description of which disk drives are used by the Object
      Storage service (for example, a drive is used to store account or object data). Rings also
      specify the policy for data storage (for example, defining the number of replicas). The rings
      are automatically built during the initial deployment of your cloud, with the configuration
      provided during setup of the <phrase/> Input Model. (For more information,
      see <xref linkend="idg-planning----architecture-input_model-input_model-dita-1"/>.) </para>

    <para>After successful deployment of your cloud, you may want to change or modify the configuration
      for Swift. For example, you may want to add or remove Swift nodes, add additional storage
      policies, or upgrade the size of the disk drives. For instructions, see <ulink url="input_model_change_existing_rings.dita">Applying Input Model Changes
        to Existing Rings</ulink> and <ulink url="add_new_storage_policy.dita">Adding a New Storage Policy - Swift.</ulink></para>

    <note>
         <para>The process of modifying or adding a configuration is similar to other configuration or
        topology changes in the cloud. Generally, you make the changes to the input model files at
          <literal>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/</literal> on the lifecycle manager and then run
        Ansible playbooks to reconfigure the system.</para>
      </note>

    <para>Changes to the rings require several phases to complete, therefore, you may need to run the
      playbooks several times over several days.</para>

    <para>The following topics cover ring management:</para>

  </section>
