<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><section id="enabling_the_nova_resize">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Enabling the Nova Resize and Migrate
    Features</title>
    <para>The two features below are disabled by default:</para>
   <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
         <para>
            <emphasis role="bold">Resize</emphasis> - this feature allows you to change the size of a Compute instance by
          changing its flavor. See the <ulink url="http://docs.openstack.org/user-guide/cli_change_the_size_of_your_server.html">OpenStack User Guide</ulink> for more details on its
          use.</para>
      </listitem>
        <listitem>
         <para>
            <emphasis role="bold">Migrate</emphasis> - read about the differences between "live" migration (enabled, by
          default) and regular migration (disabled, by default) at <xref linkend="liveInstMigration"/>.</para>
      </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
   <para>These two features are disabled by default because they require passwordless SSH access
        between Compute hosts with the user having access to the file systems to perform the
        copy.</para>
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Enabling Nova Resize and Migrate</bridgehead>
      <para>If you wish to enable these features, use these steps on your lifecycle manager. This will
        deploy a set of public and private SSH keys to the Compute hosts, allowing the
          <literal>nova</literal> user SSH access between each of your Compute hosts.</para>
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the Nova reconfigure playbook:
          </para>
            <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts nova-reconfigure.yml --extra-vars nova_migrate_enabled=true</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>To ensure that the resize and migration options show up in the Horizon dashboard, run
          the Horizon reconfigure
          playbook:</para>
            <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts horizon-reconfigure.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
   
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Disabling Nova Resize and Migrate</bridgehead>
      <para>This feature is disabled by default. However, if you have previously enabled it and wish to
        re-disable it, you can use these steps on your lifecycle manager. This will remove the set
        of public and private SSH keys that were previously added to the Compute hosts, removing the
          <literal>nova</literal> users SSH access between each of your Compute hosts.</para>
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the Nova reconfigure playbook:
          </para>
            <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts nova-reconfigure.yml --extra-vars nova_migrate_enabled=false</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>To ensure that the resize and migrate options are removed from the Horizon dashboard,
          run the Horizon reconfigure
          playbook:</para>
            <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts horizon-reconfigure.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
   
  </section>
