<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="remove_swift_node">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Removing a Swift Node</title>
    
    

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Setting the Pass-through Attributes</bridgehead>
      <para>This process will remove the Swift node's drives from the rings and move it to the
        remaining nodes in your cluster.</para>


      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</para>


         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Ensure that the weight-step attribute is set. See <xref linkend="swift_weight_att"/> for more
          details.</para>


         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Add the pass-through definition to your input model, specifying the server ID (as
          opposed to the server name). It is easiest to include in your
            <literal>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/servers.yml</literal> file since your server
          IDs are already listed in that file. See  for more details on how pass-through works. </para>


            <para>Here is the general
            format:</para>


            <screen>
pass-through:
  servers:
    - id: &lt;server-id&gt;
      data:
          &lt;subsystem&gt;:
                &lt;subsystem-attributes&gt;</screen>
            <para>Here is an example:</para>


            <screen>
---
  product:
    version: 2
            
  <emphasis role="bold">pass-through:
    servers:
      - id: ccn-0001
        data:
          swift:
            drain: yes</emphasis>
            </screen>
            <para>By setting this pass-through attribute, you indicate that the system should reduce the
            weight of the server's drives. The weight reduction is determined by the weight-step
            attribute as described in the previous step. This process is known as "draining", where
            you remove the Swift data from the node in preparation for removing the node.</para>


         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Commit your configuration to the <citetitle>FIXME: broken external xref</citetitle>, as follows:
          </para>


            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "My config or other commit message"</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the configuration processor:
          </para>


            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Use the playbook to create a deployment directory:
          </para>


            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the Swift deploy playbook to perform the first ring rebuild. This will remove some
          of the partitions from all drives on the node you are removing:
          </para>


            <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-deploy.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Wait until the replication has completed. For further details, see <xref linkend="topic_ohx_j1t_4t"/></para>


         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Determine whether all of the partitions have been removed from all drives on the Swift
          node you are removing. You can do this by SSH'ing into the first account server node and
          using these commands: </para>


            <screen>cd /etc/swiftlm/builder_dir/region-&lt;region_name&gt;
sudo swift-ring-builder &lt;ring_name&gt;.builder</screen>
            <para>For example, if the node you are removing was part of the object-o ring the command
            would be:</para>


            <screen>sudo swift-ring-builder object-0.builder</screen>
            <para>Check the output. You will need to know the IP address of the server being drained. In
            the example below, the number of partitions of the drives on 192.168.245.3 has reached
            zero for the object-0 ring:</para>


            <screen>$ cd /etc/swiftlm/builder_dir/region-region1/
$ sudo swift-ring-builder object-0.builder 
account.builder, build version 6
4096 partitions, 3.000000 replicas, 1 regions, 1 zones, 6 devices, 0.00 balance, 0.00 dispersion
The minimum number of hours before a partition can be reassigned is 16
The overload factor is 0.00% (0.000000)
Devices:    id  region  zone      ip address  port  replication ip  replication port      name weight partitions balance meta
             0       1     1   192.168.245.3  6002   192.168.245.3              6002     disk0   0.00          0   -0.00 padawan-ccp-c1-m1:disk0:/dev/sdc
             1       1     1   192.168.245.3  6002   192.168.245.3              6002     disk1   0.00          0   -0.00 padawan-ccp-c1-m1:disk1:/dev/sdd
             2       1     1   192.168.245.4  6002   192.168.245.4              6002     disk0  18.63       2048   -0.00 padawan-ccp-c1-m2:disk0:/dev/sdc
             3       1     1   192.168.245.4  6002   192.168.245.4              6002     disk1  18.63       2048   -0.00 padawan-ccp-c1-m2:disk1:/dev/sdd
             4       1     1   192.168.245.5  6002   192.168.245.5              6002     disk0  18.63       2048   -0.00 padawan-ccp-c1-m3:disk0:/dev/sdc
             5       1     1   192.168.245.5  6002   192.168.245.5              6002     disk1  18.63       2048   -0.00 padawan-ccp-c1-m3:disk1:/dev/sdd</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>If the number of partitions is zero for the server on all rings, you can move to the
          next step, otherwise continue the ring rebalance cycle by repeating steps 7-9 until the
          weight has reached zero.</para>


         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>If the number of partitions is zero for the server on all rings, you can remove the
          Swift nodes' drives from all rings. Edit the pass-through data you created in step #3 and
          set the <literal>remove</literal> attribute as shown in this example:
          </para>


            <screen>---
  product:
    version: 2
            
  pass-through:
    servers:
      - id: ccn-0001
        data:
          swift:
            <emphasis role="bold">remove: yes</emphasis>
            </screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Commit your configuration to the <citetitle>FIXME: broken external xref</citetitle>, as follows:
          </para>


            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "My config or other commit message"</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the configuration processor:
          </para>


            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Update your deployment directory:
          </para>


            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the Swift deploy playbook to rebuild the rings by removing the server:
          </para>


            <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-deploy.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>At this stage, the server has been removed from the rings and the data that was
          originally stored on the server has been replicated in a balanced way to the other servers
          in the system. You can proceed to the next phase.</para>


         </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
   

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">To Disable Swift on a Node</bridgehead>
      <para>The next phase in this process will disable the Swift service on the node. In this example,
          <emphasis role="bold">swobj4</emphasis> is the node being removed from Swift.</para>

<orderedlist id="ol_lty_22g_pt">
            <listitem>
               <para>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</para>

            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Stop Swift services on the node using the <literal>swift-stop.yml</literal>
              playbook:</para>

               <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-stop.yml --limit <emphasis role="bold">&lt;hostname&gt;</emphasis>
               </screen>
               <para>The
              following example uses the <literal>swift-stop.yml</literal> playbook to stop Swift
              services on
              <emphasis role="bold">helion-cp1-swobj0004</emphasis>:</para>
<screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-stop.yml --limit <emphasis role="bold">helion-cp1-swobj0004</emphasis>
                  </screen>

               <note>
                  <para>When
              using the <literal>--limit</literal> argument, you must specify the full hostname (for
              example: <emphasis role="bold">helion-cp1-swobj0004</emphasis>) or use the wild card * (for example:
                <emphasis role="bold">*swobj4*</emphasis>).</para>

               </note>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Remove the configuration
              files.</para>

               <screen>ssh helion-cp1-swobj4-mgmt sudo rm -R /etc/swift</screen>
               <note>
                  <para>Do
              not run any other playbooks until you have finished the process described in <emphasis role="bold">To
                Remove a Node from the Input Model</emphasis>. Otherwise, these playbooks may recreate
                <literal>/etc/swift</literal> and restart Swift on <emphasis role="bold">swobj4</emphasis>. If you accidentally
              run a playbook, simply repeat the process in <emphasis role="bold">To Disable Swift on a
            Node</emphasis>.</para>

               </note>
            </listitem>
        </orderedlist>

   

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">To Remove a Node from the Input Model</bridgehead>
      <para>Use the following steps to finish the process of removing the Swift node.</para>

<orderedlist id="ol_afc_m2g_pt">
            <listitem>
               <para>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</para>

            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Edit the <literal>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/servers.yml</literal> file and
            remove the entry for the node (<emphasis role="bold">swobj4</emphasis> in this example).</para>

            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>If this was a SWPAC node, reduce the member-count attribute by 1 in the
              <literal>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/control_plane.yml</literal> file. For SWOBJ
            nodes, no such action is needed.</para>

            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Commit your configuration to the <citetitle>FIXME: broken external xref</citetitle>, as follows:
            </para>

               <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
git add -A
git commit -m "My config or other commit message"</screen>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Run the configuration processor:</para>

               <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</screen>
               <para>You may want to use the <literal>remove_deleted_servers</literal> and
                <literal>free_unused_addresses</literal> switches to free up the resources when
              running the configuration processor. See  for more details.</para>

               <screen>ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml -e remove_deleted_servers="y" -e free_unused_addresses="y"</screen>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Update your deployment
            directory:</para>

               <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</screen>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Validate the changes you've made to the configuration files using the playbook below
            before proceeding further: </para>

               <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-compare-model-rings.yml --limit SWF*</screen>
               <para>If any errors occur, correct them in your configuration files and repeat steps 3-5
              again until no more errors occur before going to the next step.</para>

               <para>For more details on how to interpret and resolve errors, see <xref linkend="topic_avw_22b_kt"/></para>

            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Remove the node from
            Cobbler:</para>

               <screen>sudo cobbler system remove --name=swobj4</screen>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Run the Cobbler deploy playbook:
            </para>

               <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost cobbler-deploy.yml</screen>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>The final step will depend on what type of Swift node you are removing. </para>

               <para>If the node
              was a SWPAC node, run the <literal>hlm-deploy.yml</literal> playbook:</para>

               <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-deploy.yml</screen>
               <para>If the node was a SWOBJ node, run the <literal>swift-deploy.yml</literal> playbook:</para>

               <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts swift-deploy.yml</screen>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Wait until replication has finished. For more details, see <xref linkend="topic_ohx_j1t_4t"/>.</para>

            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>You may need to continue to rebalance the rings. For instructions, see <emphasis role="bold">Final
              Rebalance Phase </emphasis> at <xref linkend="change_swift_rings"/>.</para>

            </listitem>
        </orderedlist>

   

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Remove the Swift Node from Monitoring</bridgehead>
      <para>Once you have removed the Swift node(s), the alarms against them will trigger so there are
        additional steps to take to resolve this issue.</para>


      <para>You will want to SSH to each of the Monasca API servers and edit the
          <literal>/etc/monasca/agent/conf.d/host_alive.yaml</literal> file to remove references to
        the Swift node(s) you removed. This will require <literal>sudo</literal> access.</para>


      <para>Once you have removed the references on each of your Monasca API servers you then need to
        restart the monasca-agent on each of those servers with this command:</para>


      <screen>sudo service monasca-agent restart</screen>
      <para>With the Swift node references removed and the monasca-agent restarted, you can then delete
        the corresponding alarm to finish this process. To do so we recommend using the Monasca CLI
        which should be installed on each of your Monasca API servers by default:</para>


      <screen>monasca alarm-list --metric-dimensions hostname=&lt;swift node deleted&gt;</screen>
      <para>You can then delete the alarm with this command:</para>


      <screen>monasca alarm-delete &lt;alarm ID&gt;</screen>
   

  </section>
