<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="ovsvapp_monitoring">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Monitoring Integration with OVSvApp Appliance</title>
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Processes Monitored with Monasca Agent</bridgehead>
      <para>Using the Monasca agent, the following services are monitored on the OVSvApp appliance:</para>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>
               <emphasis role="bold">Neutron_ovsvapp_agent service</emphasis> - This is the Neutron agent which runs in the
          appliance which will help enable networking for the tenant virtual machines.</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>
               <emphasis role="bold">Openvswitch</emphasis> - This service is used by the neutron_ovsvapp_agent service for
          enabling the datapath and security for the tenant virtual machines.</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>
               <emphasis role="bold">Ovsdb-server</emphasis> - This service is used by the neutron_ovsvapp_agent service.</para>
         </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <para>If any of the above three processes fail to run on the OVSvApp appliance it will lead to
        network disruption for the tenant virtual machines. This is why they are monitored.</para>
      <para>The monasca-agent periodically reports the status of these processes and metrics data
        ('load' - cpu.load_avg_1min, 'process' - process.pid_count, 'memory' - mem.usable_perc,
        'disk' - disk.space_used_perc, 'cpu' - cpu.idle_perc for examples) to the Monasca
        server.</para>
   
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">How It Works</bridgehead>
      <para>Once the vApp is configured and up, the monasca-agent will attempt to register with the
        Monasca server. After successful registration, the monitoring begins on the processes listed
        above and you will be able to see status updates on the server side.</para>
      <para>The monasca-agent monitors the processes at the system level so, in the case of failures of
        any of the configured processes, updates should be seen immediately from Monasca.</para>
      <para>To check the events from the server side, log into the Ops Console. For more details on how
        to use the Ops Console, see <xref linkend="opsconsole"/>
      </para>
   
    <para/>
  </section>
