<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="add_osdnode">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Adding an Object Storage Daemon (OSD)
    Node</title>
    
    <para/>

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Prerequisites</bridgehead>
      <para>To begin, make sure you have one or more baremetal servers that meet the minimum hardware
        requirements for an object storage daemon (OSD) node, as documented in the <citetitle>FIXME: broken external xref</citetitle>.</para>
      <para>Ensure that disks designated to be used for the OSD data and journal storage meet the
        conditions below. If they do not, Ceph configuration will fail:</para>
      <itemizedlist id="ul_xsp_mfx_dv">
        <listitem>
            <para>Any existing partitions must be deleted</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>The disk should not be mounted</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>The disk should not be in use or held by some other device</para>
         </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
   
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Adding an Object Storage Daemon (OSD) Node</bridgehead>
      <para>The following steps will show you how to add a new OSD node to your
          <literal>servers.yml</literal> file and then run the playbooks that update your cloud
        configuration. You will run these playbooks from the lifecycle manager.</para>
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Log in to your lifecycle manager.</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Checkout the <literal>site</literal> branch of your local git so you can begin to make the
          necessary edits:
          </para>
            <screen>cd ~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data
git checkout site</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>In the same directory, edit your <literal>servers.yml</literal> file to add the details
          about your new OSD node(s). You can simply copy and paste the section for an existing
          server with the <literal>OSD-ROLE</literal> role and edit the values to match the new server
          being added.</para>
            <para>For example, if you already had a cluster of three OSD nodes and needed to
            add a fourth one, you would add the  details for your new OSD node to the bottom of the
            file in this format:</para>
            <screen># Ceph OSD Nodes
- id: osd4
  ip-addr: 192.168.10.9
  role: OSD-ROLE
  server-group: RACK1
  nic-mapping: MY-2PORT-SERVER
  mac-addr: 8b:f6:9e:ca:3b:78
  ilo-ip: 192.168.9.9
  ilo-password: password
  ilo-user: admin</screen>
            <para>You can find detailed descriptions of these fields .</para>
            <important>
               <para>You will need to verify that the <literal>ip-addr</literal> value you
            choose for this new node does not conflict with any other IP address in your cloud
            environment. You can confirm this by checking the
              <literal>~/helion/my_cloud/info/address_info.yml</literal> file on your lifecycle
            manager.</para>
            </important>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>In your <literal>control_plane.yml</literal> file, in the section that details the OSD
          server-role, you will need to check the values for <literal>member-count</literal>,
            <literal>min-count</literal>, and <literal>max-count</literal>, if you specified them, to
          ensure that they match up with your new total node count. For example, if you had
          previously specified <literal>member-count: 3</literal> and are adding a fourth OSD node,
          you will need to change that value to <literal>member-count: 4</literal>. Note that these
          values are optional and may or may not be specified in your
            <literal>control_plane.yml</literal> file. If the values are not specified, proceed to
          Step 5.</para>
            <para>See  for
            more details.</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Commit the changes to git:
          </para>
            <screen>git add -A
git commit -a -m "Add node &lt;name&gt;"</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the configuration processor:
          </para>
            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost config-processor-run.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Update your deployment directory:
          </para>
            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost ready-deployment.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Add the new node into Cobbler:
          </para>
            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost cobbler-deploy.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Then you can image the node: </para>
            <screen>cd ~/helion/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/localhost bm-reimage.yml -e nodelist=&lt;node name&gt;</screen>
            <note>
               <para>If you don't know the <literal>&lt;node name&gt;</literal> of your new OSD node, you can
            get it by using <literal>sudo cobbler system list</literal>
               </para>
            </note>
            <para>Before proceeding, you may want to take a look at
              <emphasis role="bold">~/helion/my_cloud/info/server_info.yml</emphasis> to see if the assignment of the node you
            have added is what you expect. It may not be, as nodes will not be numbered
            consecutively if any have previously been removed. This behavior is by design, and is
            intended to prevent loss of data; the configuration processor retains data about removed
            nodes and keeps their ID numbers from being reallocated. See the Persisted Server
            Allocations section in  for information on how this
          works.</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the following series of playbooks to complete the deployment of your additional OSD
          node(s) to your Ceph cluster: </para>
            <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml --tags "generate_hosts_file"
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts site.yml --limit &lt;hostname&gt;</screen>
            <para>The
            hostname of the newly added node can be found in the list generated from the output of
            the following
          command:</para>
            <screen>grep hostname ~/helion/my_cloud/info/server_info.yml</screen>
         </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
   
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Verifying the New OSD Node</bridgehead>
      <para>From the lifecycle manager, run the following command:</para>
      <screen>ceph --cluster ceph osd tree</screen>
      <para>If the Ceph cluster name is different than the default (i.e. <emphasis role="bold">ceph</emphasis>), you need to
        modify the above command accordingly.</para>
      <para>When you run the above command, if the OSD node has been successfully added to the existing
        Ceph cluster, the hostname of the newly added OSD should appear in the output.</para>
   
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Adding a New OSD Node to Monitoring</bridgehead>
      <para>If you want to add your new OSD node to the monitoring service checks, run the following
        additional playbook:</para>
      <screen>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts monasca-deploy.yml --tags active_ping_checks</screen>
   
  </section>
