<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><section id="DCN_integration">
   <title>
      <phrase/>DCN Integration with Multisite Support for
    Neutron</title>

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN) capabilities in <phrase/>
      </bridgehead>
      <para>HPE Distributed Cloud Networking (DCN) is network overlay software that enables network 
        virtualization both within data centers and between them.
        <phrase/> allows you to use DCN as your networking.
        This choice is an all-or-nothing option in that you cannot use traditional networking in
          <phrase/> if you choose to use DCN.</para>
      <para os="HOS">For that reason, and others, you cannot upgrade an existing installation of
          <phrase/> to <phrase/> with DCN. The network
        configuration you had previously will not work. Therefore, to use DCN, you must install
          <phrase/> as a new deployment, and follow the steps outlined in
        these documents.</para>
   
    
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Features not available when DCN is deployed</bridgehead>
      <para>Because of the foundational differences between DCN networks and traditional networking,
        when DCN is running in <phrase/>, these features are not deployed:</para>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Neutron openvswitch-agent </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Neutron DHCP agent </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Neutron L3 or VPN agents </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Neutron Metadata-agent </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Neutron LBAAS, LBAASv2 agents</para>
         </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <note>
         <para>DCN has a neutron-server component (DCN-ML2 or DCN-CORE-PLG), VRS and a
        medatata-agent (which are essentially replacements for neutron OVS, L3, and DHCP, and
        metadata agents).</para>
      </note>
   
    
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Notes about deploying DCN in <phrase/>
      </bridgehead>
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Neutron-server must be running with either the Nuage mechanism driver (DCN-ML2) or the
          core-plugin (DCN-CORE-PLG). DCN-ML2 is preferred. </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>VRS with the Nuage metadata-agent and VRS-G. VRS runs on compute nodes, VRS-G runs on a
          standalone node. </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>(Optional): Virtualized services controller (VSC) There are two ways to have VSC(s) 
          deployed, one via playbooks and another via bringing up the provided VSC VM disk image.
        </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>The <xref linkend="DCN_ml2"/> you must
          download will need to be "staged" for deployment into <phrase/> using the
            <xref linkend="DCN_ml2"/> The third-party import playbook does the staging. </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>After running the third-party import playbook, <phrase/> needs to be
          configured for DCN. </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run configuration processor </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>(Optional) If VSC is to be deployed via playbooks, you will need to perform additional 
          configuration steps and run the configuration processor again.
        </para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Run the standard <phrase/> steps to deploy. 
        </para>
         </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
      <note>
         <para>Additional steps are required if VSC is deployed via playbooks. See next section for details.</para>
      </note>
   
  </section>
