<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="solidfire_overview30">
  <title>Integrating with SolidFire Storage</title>
  <body>
    <p>The SolidFire storage system is an interconnection of hardware and software designed for
      complete automation and management of an entire SolidFire storage system.</p>

    <p>SolidFire uses the following defintions for Node and Cluster:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Node</dt>
        <dd>Each node is a collection of Solid State Drivers (SSD). Each storage node comes with
          CPU, networking, cache and storage resources. The storage node resources are pooled into a
          cluster of nodes.</dd>
      </dlentry>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Cluster</dt>
        <dd>A cluster is the hub of a SolidFire Storage system and is made up of a collection of
          nodes. You must have at least four nodes in a cluster. in order for SolidFire storage
          efficiencies to be implemented correctly. A cluster appears on the network as a single
          logical group and can then be accessed as block storage. <note type="important">Although
            only four nodes are required, five or more nodes are recommended.</note>
        </dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <p>SolidFire relies on Cinder, an OpenStack service that manages the creation, attaching, and
      detaching of block storage volumes between a storage system like SolidFire and different host
      servers. The Helion third-party hardware integration team tested integrating SolidFire as a
      single backend with <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>.</p>
    <p>If you already have SolidFire deployed in your environment and want to integrate its storage
      with <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>, you can use this document to understand how testers have
      successfully completed the process. The process involves meeting all of the hardware and
      network requirements, and configuring SolidFire as a single back-end. Additionally, this topic
      provides sample test scenarios that have been used to verify integration with Helion
      OpenStack.</p>
    <p>The following operations supported by SolidFire were confirmed to also be supported by
        <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>.</p>
    <p>The following table identifies the specific operations that were tested and verified to be
      supported with Cinder API version 1.1.13.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_TinT_suppOps">
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.41*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Volumes</entry>
            <entry>Snapshots</entry>
            <entry>Statistics</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Create volume</entry>
            <entry>Create volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry>Get volume statistics (volume properties)</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Delete volume</entry>
            <entry>List volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Attach volume</entry>
            <entry>Delete volume snapshot</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Detach volume</entry>
            <entry>Create a volume from a snapshot</entry>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Clone a volume</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Extend a volume</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Transfer volume between tenants</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Copy an image to a volume</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Transfer volume between tenants</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry/>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <note type="note">The Cinder supported operations are listed in the <xref
        href="https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/CinderSupportMatrix" scope="external" format="html"
        >Cinder Support Matrix</xref></note>
    <p>To integrate SolidFire as a single-backend with <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/>:</p>
    <ol>
      <li><xref href="SolidFire_preinstall30.dita">Meet all pre-installation
        requirements</xref></li>
      <li><xref href="SolidFire_install30.dita"/></li>
      <li><xref href="SolidFire_verify30.dita">Verify SolidFire Integration</xref></li>
    </ol>
  </body>
</topic>
