<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_tq1_xt5_dt">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Allocating Object Servers</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>A Swift object server is a node that runs the swift-object service (<b>only</b>) and is used
      to store object data. It does not run the swift-proxy, swift-account, or swift-container
      services. <!--The Swift object server type is used to store object data.--></p>
    <p>This section describes the procedure to allocate a Swift object server during the
        <b>initial</b> deployment of the system. </p>
    <section id="procedure">
      <title>To Allocate a Swift Object Server</title>
      <p>Perform the following steps to allocate one or more Swift object servers:<ul
          id="ul_fbk_fj3_kt">
          <li>Verify if the example input model already contains a suitable server role. The server
            roles are usually described in the <codeph>data/server_roles.yml</codeph> file. If the
            server role is not described, you must add a suitable server role. For instructions, see
              <xref href="../../planning/objectstorage/creating_roles_swift_nodes.dita">Creating Roles for Swift Nodes</xref>.
            While adding a server role for the Swift object server, you will also allocate drives to
            store object data. For instructions, see <xref href="../../planning/objectstorage/allocating_disk_drives.dita"
              >Allocating Disk Drives</xref>.</li>
          <li>Verify if the example input model has a resource node assigned to Swift object
            servers. The resource nodes are usually assigned in the
              <codeph>data/control_plane.yml</codeph> file. If it is not assigned, you must add a
            suitable resource node. For instructions, see <xref
              href="../../planning/objectstorage/creating_object_server_resource.dita">Creating  Object Server Resource
              Nodes</xref>.</li>
          <li>Identify the physical servers and their IP address and other detailed information. Add
            the details for the servers in either of the following YAML files and verify the
            server-groups information:<ul id="ul_gmj_ng3_kt">
              <li>Add  details in the servers list (usually in the <codeph>data/servers.yml</codeph>
                file).</li>
              <li>As with all servers, you must also verify and/or modify the server-groups
                information (usually in the <codeph>data/server_groups.yml</codeph> file).</li>
            </ul>The only part of this process that is unique to Swift is the allocation of disk
            drives for use by the object ring. For instructions, see <xref
              href="../../planning/objectstorage/allocating_disk_drives.dita#allocating-disk-drives">Allocating Disk
              Drives</xref>.</li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
