<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="swift_storage_policies">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Designing Storage Policies</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>Storage policies enable you to differentiate the way objects are stored. </p>
    <section>
      <p>Reasons to use storage policies include the following:<ul id="ul_q4t_cxd_jt">
          <li>Different types or classes of disk drive <p>You can use different drives to store
              various type of data. For example, you can use 7.5K RPM high-capacity drives for one
              type of data and fast SSD drives for another type of data.</p></li>
          <li>Different redundancy or availability needs<p>You can define the redundancy and
              availability based on your requirement. You can use a replica count of 3 for "normal"
              data and a replica count of 4 for "critical" data. </p></li>
          <li>Growing of cluster capacity<p>If the storage cluster capacity grows beyond the
              recommended partition power as described in <xref
                href="ring_specifications.dita#ring-specification/selecting-partition-power"
                >Selecting a Partition Power</xref>.</p></li>
          <li>Erasure-coded storage and replicated storage <p>If you use erasure-coded storage for
              some objects and replicated storage for other objects. </p></li>
        </ul></p>
    </section>

    <p>Storage policies are implemented on a per-container basis. If you want a non-default storage
      policy to be used for a new container, you can explicitly specify the storage policy to use
      when you create the container. You can change which storage policy is the default. However,
      this does not affect existing containers. Once the storage policy of a container is set, the
      policy for that container cannot be changed.</p>
    <p><!--Once you create and assign the storage policy to a container that remains intact, i.e., you cannot change the policy for that container but you can always create additional policies and move data from one container to another, if you choose to assign a different policy to a new container.-->
    </p>
    <p>The disk drives used by storage policies can overlap or be distinct. If the storage policies
      overlap (i.e., have disks in common between two storage policies), it is recommended to use
      the same set of disk drives for both policies. But in the case where there is a partial
      overlap in disk drives, because one storage policy receives many objects, the drives that are
      common to both policies must store more objects than drives that are only allocated to one
      storage policy. This can be appropriate for a situation where the overlapped disk drives are
      larger than the non-overlapped drives.
      <!--However, in general this situation is harder to balance then a simple topology.--></p>
    <section>
      <title>Specifying Storage Policies</title>
    </section>
    <p>There are two places where storage policies are specified in the input model:<ul
        id="ul_psf_lg2_jt">
        <li>The attribute of the storage policy is specified in ring-specification in the
            <codeph>data/swift/rings.yml</codeph> file for a given region. </li>
        <li>When associating disk drives with specific rings in a disk model. This specifies which
          drives and nodes use the storage policy. In other word words, where data associated with a
          storage policy is stored.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>A storage policy is specified similar to other rings. However, the following features are
      unique to storage policies:<ul id="ul_k3j_ng2_jt">
        <li>Storage policies are applicable to object rings only. The account or container rings
          cannot have storage policies.</li>
        <li>There is a format for the ring name: object-&lt;index>, where index is a number in the
          range 0 to 9 (in this release). For example: object-0.</li>
        <li>The object-0 ring must always be specified.</li>
        <li>Once a storage policy is deployed, it should never be deleted. You can remove all disk
          drives for the storage policy, however the ring specification itself cannot be
          deleted.</li>
        <li>You can use the <codeph>display-name</codeph> attribute when creating a container to
          indicate which storage policy you want to use for that container.</li>
        <li>One of the storage policies can be the default policy. If you do not specify the storage
          policy then the object created in new container uses the default storage policy.</li>
        <li>If you change the default, only containers created later will have that changed default
          policy.</li>
      </ul></p>
    <p>The following example shows three storage policies in use. Note that the third storage policy
      example is an erasure coded
      ring.<codeblock>rings:
. . . 
- name: object-0
  display-name: General
  default: no
  min-part-hours: 16
  partition-power: 12
  replication-policy:
      replica-count: 3
- name: object-1
  display-name: Data
  default: yes
  min-part-hours: 16
  partition-power: 20
  replication-policy:
      replica-count: 3
- name: object-2
  display-name: Archive
  default: no
  min-part-hours: 16
  partition-power: 20
  erasure-coded-policy:
    ec-type: jerasure_rs_vand
    ec-num-data-fragments: 10
    ec-num-parity-fragments: 4
    ec-object-segment-size: 1048576</codeblock></p>
  </body>
</topic>
