<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="DesignateBIND">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Install the DNS Service with BIND </title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="Overview">
      <title>Install DNS Service with BIND</title>
      <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> DNS Service and BIND can be installed together instead of the
        default <b>PowerDNS</b> backend. BIND will be deployed to one or more control planes
        clusters. The following configuration example denotes where the BIND service is
        installed.</p>
      
    </section>
    <section id="ConfigureBackend">
      <title>Configure the Backend</title>
      <p>Ensure the DNS Service components, and the BIND component have been placed on a cluster.
        BIND may be placed on a separate cluster to the other DNS Service components. Additionally,
        ensure the default <b>powerdns</b> component has been removed.
        <codeblock>control-planes: 
          - name: control-plane-1
          region-name: region1
          
          clusters:
          - name: cluster1
          service-components:
          - lifecycle-manager
          - mysql
          - ip-cluster
          - apache2
          - ...
          - designate-api
          - designate-central
          - designate-pool-manager
          - designate-zone-manager
          - designate-mdns
          - designate-client
          - bind</codeblock>
      </p>
      
      <p><b>Update Input Model</b></p>
      <p>Once the backend is configured, you will need to add <codeph>bind-ext</codeph> to the
          <codeph>network_groups.yml</codeph> file. <ol>
          <li>Edit <codeph>helion/my_cloud/definition/data/network_groups.yml</codeph>, add
              <codeph>bind-ext</codeph> to compnent-endpoints.
            <codeblock>name: EXTERNAL-API
hostname-suffix: extapi
component-endpoints: 
- bind-ext</codeblock>
          </li>
          <li>Save file.</li>
        </ol>
      </p>
      
    </section>

    
  </body>
</topic>
