<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><section id="register_suse_already_installed">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Registering SUSE Linux from the Installed System</title>
    
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Registering from the Installed System</bridgehead>
      <para> If you have skipped the registration during the installation or want to re-register your
        system, you can register the system at any time using the YaST module "Product Registration"
        or the command line tool "SUSEConnect". </para>

      <para><emphasis role="bold">Registering with YaST</emphasis></para>

      <para> To register the system start "YaST -&gt; Software -&gt; Product Registation". Provide the E-mail
        address associated with the SUSE account you or your organization uses to manage
        subscriptions. In case you do not have a SUSE account yet, go to the SUSE Customer Center
        home page (<ulink url="https://scc.suse.com/">https://scc.suse.com/</ulink>) to create one. </para>

      <para> Enter the Registration Code you received with your copy of SUSE Linux Enterprise Server.
        Proceed with Next to start the registration process. </para>

      <para> By default the system is registered with the SUSE Customer Center. However, if your
        organization provides local regsitration servers you can either choose one form the list of
        auto-detected servers or provide the URl at "Register System via local SMT Server". Proceed
        with "Next". </para>

      <para><emphasis role="bold">Registering with SUSEConnect</emphasis></para>

      <para> To register from the command line, use the command
        </para>
<screen>sudo SUSEConnect -r &lt;REGISTRATION_CODE&gt; -e &lt;EMAIL_ADDRESS&gt;</screen>

      <para> Replace &lt;REGISTRATION_CODE&gt; with the Registration Code you received with your copy
        of SUSE Linux Enterprise Server. Replace &lt;EMAIL_ADDRESS&gt; with the E-mail address
        associated with the SUSE account you or your organization uses to manage subscriptions. To
        register with a local registration server, also provide the URL to the server:
        </para>
<screen>sudo SUSEConnect -r &lt;REGISTRATION_CODE&gt; -e &lt;EMAIL_ADDRESS&gt; --url "https://suse_register.example.com/"</screen>

   
    
  </section>
