<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="topic_tq1_xt5_dt">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Allocating Object Servers</title>
    
    <para>A Swift object server is a node that runs the swift-object service (<emphasis role="bold">only</emphasis>) and is used
      to store object data. It does not run the swift-proxy, swift-account, or swift-container
      services. <!--The Swift object server type is used to store object data.--></para>

    <para>This section describes the procedure to allocate a Swift object server during the
        <emphasis role="bold">initial</emphasis> deployment of the system. </para>

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">To Allocate a Swift Object Server</bridgehead>
      <para>Perform the following steps to allocate one or more Swift object servers:</para>
<itemizedlist id="ul_fbk_fj3_kt">
            <listitem>
               <para>Verify if the example input model already contains a suitable server role. The server
            roles are usually described in the <literal>data/server_roles.yml</literal> file. If the
            server role is not described, you must add a suitable server role. For instructions, see
              <xref linkend="topic_uh2_td1_kt"/>.
            While adding a server role for the Swift object server, you will also allocate drives to
            store object data. For instructions, see <xref linkend="allocating-disk-drives"/>.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Verify if the example input model has a resource node assigned to Swift object
            servers. The resource nodes are usually assigned in the
              <literal>data/control_plane.yml</literal> file. If it is not assigned, you must add a
            suitable resource node. For instructions, see <xref linkend="topic_jzk_q1c_jt"/>.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>Identify the physical servers and their IP address and other detailed information. Add
            the details for the servers in either of the following YAML files and verify the
            server-groups information:</para>
               <itemizedlist id="ul_gmj_ng3_kt">
                  <listitem>
                     <para>Add  details in the servers list (usually in the <literal>data/servers.yml</literal>
                file).</para>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                     <para>As with all servers, you must also verify and/or modify the server-groups
                information (usually in the <literal>data/server_groups.yml</literal> file).</para>
                  </listitem>
               </itemizedlist>
               <para>The only part of this process that is unique to Swift is the allocation of disk
            drives for use by the object ring. For instructions, see <xref linkend="allocating-disk-drives"/>.</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>

   
  </section>
