<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="cpinfofiles">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Configuration Processor Information Files</title>
        <para/>
        


    <para>In addition to producing all of the data needed to deploy and configure the cloud, the
        configuration processor also creates a number of information files that provide details of
        the resulting configuration.</para>
    <para>These files can be found in <literal>~/helion/my_cloud/info</literal> after the first
        configuration processor run. This directory is also rebuilt each time the Configuration
        Processor is run.</para>
    <para>Most of the files are in YAML format, allowing them to be used in further automation tasks
        if required.</para>
    <informaltable id="table" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
      <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
            <thead>
                <row>
                    <entry>File</entry>
                    <entry>Provides details of</entry>
                </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>IP address assignments on each network</entry>
                </row>
                
                <row>
                    <entry> </entry>
                    <entry>All ports that are open on each network by the firewall configuration. Can be
                        used if you want to configure an additional firewall in front of the API network,
                        for example.</entry>
                </row>                
                <row>
                    <entry> </entry>
                    <entry>IP addresses assigned to services. For example, this provides the data needed
                        to complete the configuration of VSA clusters.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry> </entry>
                    <entry>Routes that need to be configured between networks. </entry>
                </row>                
                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>How servers have been allocated, including their network configuration. Allows
                        details of a server to be found from its ID</entry>
                </row>


                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>Details of where components of each service are deployed</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>Details the structure of the cloud from the perspective of each control-plane</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>Details the structure of the cloud from the perspective of each control-plane</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>Details the structure of the cloud from the perspective of each region</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>Details the structure of the cloud from the perspective of each service</entry>
                </row>



                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>Details the secrets that are generated by the configuration processor – the names of 
                        the secrets, along with the service(s) that use each secret and a list of the clusters on
                        which the service that consumes the secret is deployed</entry>
                </row>               
                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>Details the secrets that have been changed by the configuration processor – 
                        information for each secret is the same as for <literal>private_data_metadata.yml</literal>
               </entry>
                </row>
                
                <row>
                    <entry> </entry>
                    <entry>An explanation of the decisions the configuration processor has made when
                        allocating servers and networks</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry/>
                    <entry>A pictorial representation of the cloud</entry>
                </row>

            </tbody>
        </tgroup>
   </informaltable>
    <para>The examples are taken from the <literal>entry-scale-kvm-vsa</literal> example configuration.</para>

    </section>
