<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="configobj_controlplane">
   <title>
      <phrase/>
      <!-- Configuration Object -  -->Control Plane</title>
        
        

    <para>The snippet below shows the start of the control plane definition file.</para>

        <screen>---
  product:
     version: 2
        
  control-planes:
     - name: control-plane-1
       control-plane-prefix: cp1
       region-name: region1
       failure-zones:
         - AZ1
         - AZ2
         - AZ3
       configuration-data:
         - NEUTRON-CONFIG-CP1
         - OCTAVIA-CONFIG-CP1
       common-service-components:
         - logging-producer
         - monasca-agent
         - freezer-agent
         - stunnel
         - lifecycle-manager-target
       clusters:
         - name: cluster1
           cluster-prefix: c1
           server-role: CONTROLLER-ROLE
           member-count: 3
           allocation-policy: strict
           service-components:
             - lifecycle-manager
             - ntp-server
             - swift-ring-builder
             - mysql
             - ip-cluster
             ...
        
       resources:
         - name: compute
           resource-prefix: comp
           server-role: COMPUTE-ROLE
           allocation-policy: any
           min-count: 0
           service-components:
              - ntp-client
              - nova-compute
              - nova-compute-kvm
              - neutron-l3-agent
              ...
</screen>
    <informaltable id="idg-planning----architecture-input_model-configobj-controlplane-dita-2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
         <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Key</entry>
                        <entry>Value Description</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>name</entry>
                        <entry>This name identifies the control plane. This value is used to persist server
                            allocations (see )
                            and cannot be changed once servers have been allocated.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>control-plane-prefix (optional)</entry>
                        <entry>The control-plane-prefix is used as part of the hostname (see ). If not specified,
                            the control plane name is used.</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>region-name</entry>
                        <entry>This name identifies the Keystone region within which services in the control
                            plane will be registered.
                            
                            <para userlevel="INTERNAL">For clouds consisting of multiple control planes, this attribute should be omitted 
                                and the regions object should be used to set the region name (see Regions).</para>
     
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    
                    <row audience="INTERNAL">
                        <entry>uses (optional)</entry>
                        <entry>Identifies the services this control will consume from other control planes (see Multiple control planes).</entry>
                    </row>                        
                        
                    <row audience="INTERNAL">
                        <entry>load-balancers (optional)</entry>
                        <entry>A list of load balancer definitions for this control plane (see Load balancer definitions in control planes).
                        
                        <para>For a multi control-plane cloud load balancers must be defined in each control-plane.   
                            For a single control-plane cloud they may be defined either in the control plane or as part 
                            of a network group (compatibility with <phrase/>)</para>
                        </entry>
                    </row>                     
                    <row>
                        <entry>common-service-components (optional)</entry>
                        <entry>This lists a set of service components that run on all servers in the control
                            plane (clusters and resource pools)</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>failure-zones (optional)</entry>
                        <entry>A list of <guilabel>server-group</guilabel> names that servers for this
                            control plane will be allocated from. If no failure-zones are specified, only
                            servers not associated with a <guilabel>server-group</guilabel> will be used.
                            (see  for a description of server-groups as failure zones.)</entry>
                    </row>
                     <row>
                         <entry id="idg-planning----architecture-input_model-configobj-controlplane-dita-3">configuration-data (optional)</entry>    
                         <entry>A list of configuration data settings to be used for services in this 
                             control plane (see )</entry>
                     </row>
                    
                    <row>
                        <entry>clusters</entry>
                        <entry>A list of clusters for this control plane (see ).</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>resources</entry>
                        <entry>A list of resource groups for this control plane (see ).</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
      </informaltable>



    </section>
