<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="topic_r3k_v2c_jt">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Allocating Proxy, Account, and Container
    (PAC) Servers for Object Storage</title>
    <para/>
    <para>A Swift proxy, account, and container (PAC) server is a node that runs the swift-proxy,
      swift-account and swift-container services. It is used to respond to API requests and to store
      account and container data. The PAC node does not store object data.</para>
    <para>This section describes the procedure to allocate PAC servers during the <emphasis role="bold">initial</emphasis>
      deployment of the system. </para>
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">To allocate Swift PAC servers</bridgehead>
      <para>Perform the following steps to allocate PAC servers:</para>
   
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
         <para>Verify if the example input model already contains a suitable server role. The server
        roles are usually described in the <literal>data/server_roles.yml</literal> file. If the
        server role is not described, you must add a suitable server role and allocate drives to
        store object data. For instructions, see <xref linkend="topic_uh2_td1_kt"/> and <xref linkend="allocating-disk-drives"/>
         </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
         <para>Verify if the example input model has assigned a cluster to Swift proxy, account,
        container servers. It is usually mentioned in the <literal>data/control_plane.yml</literal>
        file. If the cluster is not assigned, then add a suitable cluster. For instructions, see
          <xref linkend="topic_rvj_21c_jt"/>
         </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
         <para>Identify the physical servers and their IP address and other detailed information.</para>
         <itemizedlist id="ul_tzf_pqb_jt">
            <listitem>
               <para>You add these details to the servers list (usually in the
              <literal>data/servers.yml</literal> file).</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>As with all servers, you must also verify and/or modify the server-groups information
            (usually in <literal>data/server_groups.yml</literal>)</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <para>The only part of this process that is unique to Swift is the allocation of disk drives for
      use by the account and container rings. For instructions, see <xref linkend="allocating-disk-drives"/>
   </para>
  </section>
