<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="concept_serverroles">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Server Roles</title>
        
        

    <para><emphasis>
         <guilabel>Clusters</guilabel> and <guilabel>resources</guilabel> use
        <guilabel>servers</guilabel> with a particular set of 
        <guilabel>server-role</guilabel>s.</emphasis></para>

        
    <para>You're going to be running the services on physical <guilabel>servers</guilabel>, and
        you're going to need a way to specify which type of servers you want to use where. This is
        defined via the <guilabel>server-role</guilabel>. Each <guilabel>server-role</guilabel>
        describes how to configure the physical aspects of a server to fulfill the needs of a
        particular role. You'll generally use a different role whenever the servers are physically
        different (have different disks or network interfaces) or if you want to use some specific
        servers in a particular role (for example to choose which of a set of identical servers are
        to be used in the control plane).</para>

        
        <para>Each <guilabel>server-role</guilabel> has a relationship to four other entities - 
            the disk-model, the interface-model, the memory-model and the cpu-model: 
        
        </para>
<itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
            <para>The <emphasis role="bold">
                  <guilabel>disk-model</guilabel> 
               </emphasis> specifies how to configure and use a server's local
                storage<phrase userlevel="INTERNAL"> and it specifies disk sizing information for virtual machine servers</phrase>. 
                The disk model is described in the next section.</para>
         </listitem>
            <listitem>
            <para>The <emphasis role="bold">
                  <guilabel>interface-model</guilabel>
               </emphasis> describes how a server's network interfaces are to
                be configured and used. This is covered in more details in the networking section.</para>
         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>An optional <emphasis role="bold">
                  <literal>memory-model</literal>
               </emphasis> specifies how to configure and use huge pages.
            <phrase userlevel="INTERNAL">The memory-model specifies memory sizing information for virtual machine servers.</phrase></para>
         </listitem>
            <listitem>
            <para>An optional <emphasis role="bold">
                  <literal>cpu-model</literal>
               </emphasis> specifies how the CPUs will be used by Nova and by DPDK.  
                <phrase userlevel="INTERNAL">The cpu-model specifies CPU sizing information for virtual machine servers.</phrase></para>
         </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>

    </section>
