<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="connect_opsconsole">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Connecting to the Operations Console</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">Instructions for accessing the Operations Console
      through a web browser.</shortdesc></abstract>
  <body>
    <section id="connecting">
      <p>To connect to OpsConsole you will need to understand the following tasks:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><xref type="section" href="#connect_opsconsole/access_creds">Ensure your login has the required
            access credentials</xref></li>
        <li><xref type="section" href="#connect_opsconsole/command">Connect through a browser</xref></li>
        <li><xref type="section" href="#connect_opsconsole/find_nameIP">Optionally use a Hostname OR virtual
            IP address to access Ops Console</xref></li>
      </ul>
      <p>OpsConsole will always be accessed over port 9095. </p>
    </section>
    <section id="access_creds">
      <title>Required Access Credentials</title>
      <p>In previous versions of OpsConsole you were required to have only the password for the
        Administrator account (admin by default). Now the Administrator user account must also have
        all of the following credentials:</p>
      <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_TinT_preinstall_chklt">
        <tgroup cols="4">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Project</entry>
              <entry>Domain</entry>
              <entry>Role</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>*All projects*</entry>
              <entry>*not specific*</entry>
              <entry>Admin</entry>
              <entry>Admin role on at least one project</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>*All projects*</entry>
              <entry>*not specific*</entry>
              <entry>Admin</entry>
              <entry>Admin role in default domain</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Admin</entry>
              <entry>default</entry>
              <entry>Admin or Monasca-user</entry>
              <entry>Admin or Monasca-user role on admin project</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <note type="important"> If your login account has administrator role on the administrator
        project, then you only need to make sure you have the administrator role on the default
        domain. </note>
      <p><b>Administrator account</b></p>
      <p>During installation, an Administrator account called “admin” is created default.</p>
      <p><b>Administrator password</b></p>
      <p>During installation, an Administrator password is randomly created by default. It is not
        recommend that you change the default password.</p>
      <p>To find the randomized password:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>To display the password, log on to the lifecycle manager and run:
          <codeblock>cat ~/service.osrc</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>

    <section id="command">
      <title>Connect Through a Browser</title>
      <p>The following instructions will show you how to find the URL to access Ops Console. You
        will use SSH, also known as Secure Socket Shell, which provides administrators with a secure
        way to access a remote computer.</p>
      <p><b>To access OpsConsole:</b></p>
      <ol>
        <li>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</li>
        <li>Locate the URL or IP address for the Operations Console with the following command:<codeblock>source ~/service.osrc &amp;&amp; openstack endpoint list | grep opsconsole | grep admin</codeblock>
          <b>Sample output:</b>
          <codeblock>| 8ef10dd9c00e4abdb18b5b22adc93e87 | region1 | opsconsole | opsconsole | True | admin | https://192.168.24.169:9095/api/v1/</codeblock><p>To
            access Ops Console, in the sample output, remove everything after port 9095 (api/v1/)
            and in a browser, type: <codeblock>https://192.168.24.169:9095</codeblock></p></li>
      </ol>
    </section>

    <section id="find_nameIP">
      <title>Optionally use a Hostname OR virtual IP address to access Ops Console</title>
      <note type="important">If you can access Ops Console using the above instructions, then you
        can skip this section. These steps provide an alernate way to access Ops Console if the
        above steps do not work for you.</note>
      <p>To find your hostname OR IP address:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Navigate to and open in a text editor the following file:
          <codeblock>network_groups.yml</codeblock></li>
        <li>Find the following entry: <codeblock>external-name</codeblock></li>
        <li>If your administrator set a hostname value in the external-name field, you will use that
          hostname when logging in to OpsConsole. or example, in a browser you would type:
          <codeblock>https://VIP:9095</codeblock></li>
        <li>If your administrator did not set a hostname value, then to determine the IP address to
          use, from your lifecycle manager, run: <codeblock>grep HZN-WEB /etc/hosts</codeblock>
          The output of that command will show you the virtual IP address you should use. For
          example, in a browser you would type: <codeblock>https://VIP:9095</codeblock></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
