<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: ready for edit (Carter)-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="HP2.0LBaaSAdmin">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Configuring Load Balancing as a Service
    (LBaaS)</title>
  <body>
    <!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p><b><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> LBaaS Configuration</b></p>
    <p> Load Balancing as a Service (LBaaS) is an advanced networking service that allows load
      balancing of multi-node environments. It provides the ability to spread requests across
      multiple servers thereby reducing the load on any single server. This document describes the
      installation steps for LBaaS v1 (see prerequisites) and the configuration for LBaaS v1 and
      v2.</p>

    <p><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> can support either LBaaS v1 or LBaaS v2 to allow for wide
      ranging customer requirements. If the decision is made to utilize LBaaS v1 it is highly
      unlikely that you will be able to perform an on-line upgrade of the service to v2 after the
      fact as the internal data structures are significantly different. Should you wish to attempt
      an upgrade support will be needed from Helion Professional Services and your chosen load
      balancer partner.</p>

    <note type="warning">The LBaaS architecture is based on a driver model to support different load
      balancers. LBaaS-compatible drivers are provided by load balancer vendors including F5 and
      Citrix. A new software load balancer driver was introduced in the OpenStack Liberty release
      called "<i>Octavia</i>". The Octavia driver deploys a software load balancer called HAProxy.
      Octavia is the default load balancing provider in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-30"/> for
      LBaaS V2. Until Octavia is configured the creation of load balancers will fail with an error.
      Please refer to <xref href="../installation/configure_lbaas.dita">Octavia installation</xref>
      document for information on installing Octavia.</note>
    
    <note type="warning">If you are planning to upgrade from <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-30"/> or <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase-40"/>,
      please contact F5 and HPE PointNext to determine which F5 drivers have been certified for
      use with Helion OpenStack. Loading drivers not certified by HPE may result in catastrophic
      failure of your cloud deployment. The last tested versions are 8.0.8 for <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> 3.x and 9.0.3
      for <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> 4.x . More information is expected in 4th quarter 2017, including the correct
      drivers for <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> 5.x.</note>

    <p>LBaaS V2 offers with <xref href="../installation/configure_lbaas.dita">Octavia</xref> a
      software load balancing solution that supports both a highly available control plane and data
      plane. However, should an external hardware load balancer be selected the cloud operation can
      achieve additional performance and availability.</p>

    <p><b>LBaaS v1</b></p>
    <p>Reasons to select this version.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>You must be able to configure LBaaS via Horizon.</li>
      <li>Your hardware load balancer vendor does not currently support LBaaS v2.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>Reasons not to select this version.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>No active development is being performed on this API in the OpenStack community. (Security
        fixes are still being worked upon).</li>
      <li>It does not allow for multiple ports on the same VIP (e.g. support both port 80 and 443 on
        a single VIP).</li>
      <li>It will never be able to support TLS termination/re-encryption at the load balancer.</li>
      <li>It will never be able to support L7 rules for load balancing.</li>
      <li>LBaaS v1 will likely become officially deprecated by the OpenStack community at the Tokyo
        (October 2015) summit.</li>
    </ol>
    <p><b>LBaaS v2</b></p>
    <p>Reasons to select this version.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Your vendor already has a driver that supports LBaaS v2. Many hardware load balancer
        vendors already support LBaaS v2 and this list is growing all the time.</li>
      <li>You intend to script your load balancer creation and management so a UI is not important
        right now (Horizon support will be added in a future release).</li>
      <li>You intend to support TLS termination at the load balancer.</li>
      <li>You intend to use the Octavia software load balancer (adding HA and scalability).</li>
      <li>You don’t want to take your load balancers offline in order to perform subsequent LBaaS
        upgrades.</li>
      <li>You intend in future releases to need L7 load balancing.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>Reasons not to select this version.</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Your LBaaS vendor doesn’t have a v2 driver.</li>
      <li>You must be able to manage your load balancers from Horizon.</li>
      <li>You have legacy software which utilizes the LBaaS v1 API.</li>
    </ol>

    <p>LBaaS v1 requires configuration changes prior to installation and is not recommended. LBaaS
      v2 is installed by default with <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> and requires minimal configuration
      to start the service.</p>



    <p>
      <ul id="LBaaSlist">
        <li><xref href="lbaas_admin.dita#HP2.0LBaaSAdmin/Prerequisites">Prerequisites</xref></li>

      </ul>
    </p>
    <!-- Original note from Tim Cuddy 
    <note>Neither LBaaS API currently supports load balancer failover. If a load balancer is deleted
      it will need to be manually recreated. Future releases of the v2 API are targeted to include
      automatic failover of a deployed load balancer. This functionality is targeted for the
      OpenStack Mitaka release via the Octavia software driver. More information about this driver
      can be found at: <xref href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8n7FGhtOiXk" format="html"
        scope="external"/>.</note>
        -->

    <note>Only LBaaS V2 API currently supports load balancer failover with Octavia. However, in
      LBaaS V1 and if Octavia is not deployed when a load balancer is deleted it will need to be
      manually recreated. LBaaS v2 API includes automatic failover of a deployed load balancer with
      Octavia. More information about this driver can be found at <xref
        href="../installation/configure_lbaas.dita"/></note>

    <section id="Prerequisites">
      <title>Prerequisites</title>
      <p><b><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> LBaaS v1</b></p>
      <p>Installing LBaaS v1</p>
      <note type="important">It is not recommended that LBaaS v1 is used in a production
        environment. It is recommended you use LBaaS v2. If you do deploy LBaaS v1, the upgrade to
        LBaaS v2 is non-trivial and may require the use of professional services.</note>
      <note>If you need to run LBaaS v1 instead of the default LBaaS v2, you should make appropriate
        installation preparations during <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> installation since LBaaS v2 is
        the default. If you have selected to install and use LBaaS v1 you will replace the
        control_plane.yml directories and neutron.conf.j2 file to use version 1. </note>
      <p>Before you modify the control_plane.yml file, it is recommended that you back up the
        original version of this file. Once you have backed them up, modify the control_plane.yml
        file.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Edit ~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/control_plane.yml - depending on your
          installation the control_plane.yml file might be in a different location.</li>
        <li>In the section specifying the compute nodes (resources/compute) replace
          neutron-lbaasv2-agent with neutron-lbaas-agent - there will only be one occurrence in that
          file.</li>
        <li>Save the modified file.</li>
        <li>Follow the steps in <xref href="../installation/using_git.dita#using_git">
            <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>: Using Git for Configuration Management</xref> to
          commit and apply the changes.</li>
        <li>To test the installation follow the steps outlined in <xref
            href="../installation/configure_lbaas.dita#OctaviaInstall/TestingOctavia">Testing the
            Octavia Load Balancer</xref> after you have created a suitable subnet, see: 
          <xref href="../operations/create_extnet.dita#create_extnet"/>.</li>
      </ol>
      <p><b><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> LBaaS v2</b></p>
      <ol>
        <li><keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> must be installed for LBaaS v2.</li>
        <li>Follow the instructions to install <xref
            href="../installation/configure_lbaas.dita#OctaviaInstall">Octavia</xref></li>
      </ol>
    </section>

  </body>
</topic>
