<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_avw_22b_kt">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Interpreting Swift Input Model Validation
    Errors</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <p>The following examples provide an error message, description, and resolution.<note>To resolve
        an error, you must first modify the input model and re-run the configuration processor. (For
        instructions, see <xref
          href="../../../installation/using_git.dita#using_git/updating-configuration-including-default-config"
        />.) Then, continue with the deployment.</note></p>
    <p>
      <ol id="ol_vnh_g2b_kt">
        <li><b>Example Message - Model Mismatch: Cannot find drive /dev/sdt on padawan-ccp-c1-m2
            (192.168.245.3))</b><simpletable id="simpletable_crn_x2j_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>The disk model used for node <b>padawan-ccp-c1-m2</b> has drive
                  <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph> listed in the devices list of a device-group where Swift
                is the consumer. However, the <codeph>dev/sdt</codeph> device does not exist on that
                node.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>If a drive or controller is failed on a node, the operating system does not
                see the drive and so the corresponding block device may not exist. Sometimes this is
                transitory and a reboot may resolve the problem. The problem may not be with
                  <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph>, but with another drive. For example, if
                  <codeph>/dev/sds</codeph> is failed, when you boot the node, the drive that you
                expect to be called <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph> is actually called
                  <codeph>/dev/sds</codeph>. <p>Alternatively, there may not be enough drives
                  installed in the server. You can add drives. Another option is to remove
                    <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph> from the appropriate disk model. However, this removes
                  the drive for all servers using the disk model.</p></stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
        <li><b>Example Message - Model Mismatch: Cannot find drive /dev/sdd2 on padawan-ccp-c1-m2
            (192.168.245.3)</b><simpletable id="simpletable_wz4_jgj_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>The disk model used for node<b> padawan-ccp-c1-m2</b> has drive
                  <codeph>/dev/sdt</codeph> listed in the devices list of a device-group where Swift
                is the consumer. However, the partition number (2) has been specified in the model.
                This is not supported - only specify the block device name (for example
                  <codeph>/dev/sdd</codeph>), not partition names in disk models.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>Remove the partition number from the disk model.</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
        <li><b>Example Message - Cannot find IP address of padawan-ccp-c1-m3-swift for ring: account
            host: padawan-ccp-c1-m3-mgmt</b><simpletable id="simpletable_j3n_lfj_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b></stentry>
              <stentry>The service (in this example, swift-account) is running on the node
                  <b>padawan-ccp-c1-m3</b>. However, this node does not have a connection to the
                network designated for the <codeph>swift-account</codeph> service (i.e., the SWIFT
                network).</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>Check the input model for which networks are configured for each node
                type.</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
        <li>
          <b>Example Message - Ring: object-2 has specified replication_policy and
            erasure_coding_policy. Only one may be specified. </b><simpletable
            id="simpletable_jxv_lfj_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>Only either <codeph>replication-policy</codeph> or
                  <codeph>erasure-coding-policy</codeph> may be used in
                  <codeph>ring-specifications</codeph>.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>Remove one of the policy types.</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
        <li><b>Example Message - Ring: object-3 is missing a policy type (replication-policy or
            erasure-coding-policy) </b><simpletable id="simpletable_e3b_mfj_2t">
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Description</b>
              </stentry>
              <stentry>There is no <codeph>replication-policy</codeph> or
                  <codeph>erasure-coding-policy</codeph> section in
                  <codeph>ring-specifications</codeph> for the object-0 ring.</stentry>
            </strow>
            <strow>
              <stentry><b>Resolution</b></stentry>
              <stentry>Add a policy type to the input model file. </stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></li>
      </ol>
    </p>
  </body>
</topic>
