<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_hzq_2nz_sw">
  <title><keyword keyref="kw-hos-tm"/>
    <keyword keyref="kw-hos-version-301"/>: Checking for Percona Cluster Partitioning</title>

  <body>
<section>
     <!-- <p>A new check has been added to the Percona play to check whether the Percona cluster has
        become partitioned.</p>
      <p>You may need to run this check if you experience unexplained behavior or service errors,
        because one possible cause is that the MySQL database that stores all the services' internal
        configuration data may be incorrect or out of sync. This can happen if your Percona cluster
        is partitioned. If it is, you can have multiple versions of the database with incorrect/out
        of sync data. This needs to be fixed to avoid data corruption. Therefore, you can run this
        check to troubleshoot and remove the partitions.</p>-->
      <p>A new check has been added to the Percona play to check whether your Percona cluster has
        become partitioned. If it has, you could have mutliple versions of your dtabase with
        incorrect/out of sync data which need to be re-aligned. This would typically cause
        unexplained behaviour or service errors because the MySQL databases which underpin services
        may not be in the same state on all nodes of your HLM cluster.</p>
      <p>Partitioning could happen because of an issue present in an earlier version or by running
        bootstrap on one host of a cluster which has Percona up and running.</p>
      <p>You can run this check to troubleshoot and correct the partitioned cluster.</p>
      <p>This check is from the percona-status play and logs the following in the event of a
        cluster</p>
      <p>partition.</p>
    <codeblock>TASK: [FND-MDB | status | Report if the cluster seems partitioned] ************ 
failed: [multicp-cp1-c1-m1-mgmt] =>
{"failed": true}
msg: The cluster size is 2
The number of nodes in the cluster 3
The number of nodes with mysql down is 0
Check the cluster is not partitioned!!
FATAL: all hosts have already failed – aborting</codeblock>
      <p>This indicates your cluster is partitioned. </p>
      <p>The number of nodes in each cluster partition can be identified as follows:</p>
      <codeblock>sudo mysql -sNe "SHOW GLOBAL STATUS LIKE 'wsrep_cluster_size'"
wsrep_cluster_size 2</codeblock>
      <p>And the nodes in each partition can be identified as follows:</p>
      <codeblock>sudo mysql -sNe "SHOW GLOBAL STATUS LIKE 'wsrep_incoming_addresses'"
wsrep_incoming_addresses 192.168.245.5:3306,192.168.245.4</codeblock>
      <p>To fix the partitioned cluster:</p>
      <ol><li>Identify which node or nodes of your cluster have the "correct" version of your database; i.e.,
          which cluster partition is correct. <p>Generally, in MySQL  all queries are directed to
            the first node of your cluster through haproxy, so the first node of the cluster or
            controller 1 is likely to be in the up-to-date cluster. Examine some of the service
            databases to establish if recent updates in Nova compute or Glance have been applied to
            this database.</p>
        </li><li>Shut down MySQL on the node or nodes which have been identified as in the "incorrect" partition
          or having an incorrect version of the database:
          <codeblock>$ sudo service mysql stop</codeblock>
        </li><li>Confirm that MySQL is fully shut down and that no daemons are running
          <codeblock>$ ps -elf|grep -i mysql</codeblock>
        </li><li>Make a copy of the database on the node:
          <codeblock>$ sudo cp -r /var/lib/mysql /var/lib/mysql.save</codeblock>
        </li><li>Try to start MySQL on the node. <codeblock>sudo service mysql start</codeblock>If this database
          has been updated then this may fail an SST as follows: A typical warning in the logs would
          be:
          <codeblock>2016-06-23 17:28:13 26494 [ERROR] WSREP:
gcs/src/gcs_group.cpp:group_post_state_exchange():321: Reversing history: 442 -> 440, this
member has applied 2 more events than the primary component.Data loss is possible.
Aborting.</codeblock>If
          this fails, execute step 6. Otherwise, skip to step 7. </li><li>Remove the <codeph>grastate.dat</codeph> file on the problem node to force a full SST from one
          of the other cluster nodes and start
          <codeblock>$ sudo rm -rf /var/lib/mysql/grastate.dat
$ sudo service mysql start</codeblock>
        </li><li>Check the database on this node to confirm it is now fully aligned with the "good" cluster
          partition.</li>
        <li>Run percona-status to make sure it is running and that the cluster partition check no
          longer reports a partitioned cluster
          <codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts percona-status.yml</codeblock></li>
      
      
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
