<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1976">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Usage Reporting Troubleshooting</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">Troubleshooting scenarios with resolutions for the
      Ceilometer service.</shortdesc>This page describes troubleshooting scenarios for
    Ceilometer.</abstract>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic1976/logging">Logging</xref>
      </li>
      <li>
        <xref type="section" href="#topic1976/qerrors">Messaging/Queuing Errors</xref>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <section id="logging">
      <title>Logging </title>
      <p>Logs for the various running components in the Overcloud Controllers can be found at
          <i>/var/log/ceilometer.log</i>
      </p>
      <p>The Upstart for the services also logs data at <b>/var/log/upstart</b>
      </p>
    </section>
    <section id="modifying">
      <title>Modifying</title>
      <p>Change the level of debugging in Ceilometer by editing the <b>ceilometer.conf</b> file
        located at <b>/etc/ceilometer/ceilometer.conf</b>. To log the maximum amount of information,
        change the <b>level</b> entry to <b>DEBUG</b>.</p>
      <p>
        <b>Note</b>: When the logging level for a service is changed, that service must be
        re-started before the change will take effect.</p>
      <p>This is an excerpt of the <b>ceilometer.conf</b> configuration file showing where to make
        changes:</p>
      <codeblock>[loggers]
 keys: root

[handlers]
 keys: watchedfile, logstash

[formatters]
 keys: context, logstash

[logger_root]
 qualname: root
 handlers: watchedfile, logstash
 level: NOTSET</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section id="qerrors">
      <title>Messaging/Queuing Errors</title>
      <p>Ceilometer relies on a message bus for passing data between the various components. In
        high-availability scenarios, RabbitMQ servers are used for this purpose. If these servers
        are not available, the Ceilometer log will record errors during "Connecting to AMQP"
        attempts.</p>
      <p>These errors may indicate that the RabbitMQ messaging nodes are not running as expected
        and/or the RPC publishing pipeline is stale. When these errors occur, re-start the
        instances.</p>
      <p>Example error:</p>
      <codeblock>Error: unable to connect to node 'rabbit@xxxx-rabbitmq0000': nodedown</codeblock>
      <p>Use the RabbitMQ CLI to re-start the instances and then the host.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>
          <p>Restart the downed cluster node.</p>
          <codeblock>sudo invoke-rc.d rabbitmq-server start</codeblock>
        </li>
        <li>
          <p>Restart the RabbitMQ host</p>
          <codeblock>sudo rabbitmqctl start_app</codeblock>
        </li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
