<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="supported_upstream_keystone_features">
    <title>Supported Upstream Keystone Features</title>
    <body>
        <section id="section_azv_113_jx">
            <title>OpenStack upstream features that are enabled by default in <keyword
                    keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/></title>
            <p>The following supported Keystone features are enabled by default in the <keyword
                    keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> release.</p>
            <p/>
            <p>
                <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0* 1.0*"
                    id="simpletable_ctf_tzg_jx">
                    <sthead>
                        <stentry>Target Release</stentry>
                        <stentry>Name</stentry>
                        <stentry>User/Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>Note: API support only. No CLI/UI support</stentry>
                    </sthead>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>5.0</stentry>
                        <stentry>Implied Roles</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>https://blueprints.launchpad.net/keystone/+spec/implied-roles</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>5.0</stentry>
                        <stentry>Domain-Specific Roles</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>https://blueprints.launchpad.net/keystone/+spec/domain-specific-roles</stentry>
                    </strow>
                </simpletable>
            </p>
            <p/>
            <p><b>Implied rules</b></p>
            <p>To allow for the practice of hierarchical permissions in user roles, this feature
                enables roles to be linked in such a way that they function as a hierarchy with role
                inheritance. </p>
            <p>When a user is assigned a superior role, the user will also be assigned all roles
                implied by any subordinate roles. The hierarchy of the assigned roles will be
                expanded when issuing the user a token.</p>
            <p/>
            <p><b>Domain-specific roles</b></p>
            <p>This feature extends the principle of <b>implied roles</b> to include a set of roles
                that are specific to a domain. At the time a token is issued, the domain-specific
                roles are not included in the token, however, the roles that they map to are.</p>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="section_rpw_21h_jx">
            <title>OpenStack upstream features that are disabled by default in <keyword
                    keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/></title>
            <p>The following is a list of features which are fully supported in the <keyword
                    keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> release, but are disabled by default. Customers can run
                a playbook to enable the features.</p>
            <p/>
            <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0* 1.0*" id="simpletable_vcz_tbh_jx">
                <sthead>
                    <stentry>Target Release</stentry>
                    <stentry>Name</stentry>
                    <stentry>User/Admin</stentry>
                    <stentry>Reason Disabled</stentry>
                </sthead>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>5.0</stentry>
                    <stentry>Support multiple LDAP backends via per-domain configuration</stentry>
                    <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                    <stentry>Needs explicit configuration.</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>5.0</stentry>
                    <stentry>WebSSO</stentry>
                    <stentry>User and Admin</stentry>
                    <stentry>Needs explicit configuration.</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>5.0</stentry>
                    <stentry>Keystone-to-Keystone (K2K) federation</stentry>
                    <stentry>User and Admin</stentry>
                    <stentry>Needs explicit configuration.</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>5.0</stentry>
                    <stentry>Fernet token provider</stentry>
                    <stentry>User and Admin</stentry>
                    <stentry>Experimental feature in Mitaka release. Note: there are still pending
                        bugs and broken tempest tests.</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>5.0</stentry>
                    <stentry>Domain-specific config in SQL</stentry>
                    <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                    <stentry>Domain specific configuration options can be stored in SQL instead of
                        configuration files, using the new REST APIs.</stentry>
                </strow>
            </simpletable>
            <p/>
            <p/>
            <p><b>Multiple LDAP backends for each domain</b></p>
            <p>This feature allows identity backends to be configured on a domain-by-domain basis.
                Domains will be capable of having their own exclusive LDAP service (or multiple
                services). A single LDAP service can also serve multiple domains, with each domain
                in a separate subtree.</p>
            <p>To implement this feature, individual domains will require domain-specific
                configuration files. Domains that do not implement this feature will continue to
                share a common backend driver.</p>
            <p/>
            <p><b>WebSSO</b></p>
            <p>This feature enables the Keystone service to provide federated identity services
                through a token-based single sign-on page. This feature is disabled by default, as
                it requires explicit configuration.</p>
            <p/>
            <p><b>Keystone-to-keystone (K2K) federation</b></p>
            <p>This feature enables separate Keystone instances to federate identities among the
                instances, offering inter-cloud authorization. This feature is disabled by default,
                as it requires explicit configuration.</p>
            <p/>
            <p><b>Fernet token provider</b></p>
            <p>Provides tokens in the fernet format. This is an experimental feature and is disabled
                by default.</p>
            <p/>
            <p><b>Domain-specific config in SQL</b></p>
            <p>Using the new REST APIs, domain-specific configuration options can be stored in a SQL
                database instead of in configuration files.</p>
            <p/>
            <p/>
        </section>
        <section id="section_fm3_mch_jx">
            <title><b>OpenStack upstream features that have been specifically disabled in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/></b></title>
            <p>The following is a list of extensions which are disabled by default in
                    <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, according to Keystone policy.</p>
            <p/>
            <p>
                <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0* 1.0*"
                    id="simpletable_y3n_xch_jx">
                    <sthead>
                        <stentry>Target Release</stentry>
                        <stentry>Name</stentry>
                        <stentry>User/Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>Reason Disabled</stentry>
                    </sthead>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>Endpoint Filtering</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>This extension was implemented by HP to facilitate service
                            activation. However, due to lack of enforcement at the service side,
                            this feature is only half effective right now.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>Endpoint Policy</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>This extension was intended to facilitate policy (policy.json)
                            management and enforcement. This feature is useless right now due to
                            lack of the needed middleware to utilize the policy files stored in
                            Keystone.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>OATH 1.0a</stentry>
                        <stentry>User and Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>Complexity in workflow. Lack of adoption. Its alternative, Keystone
                            Trust, is enabled by default. HEAT is using Keystone Trust.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>Revocation Events</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>For PKI token only and PKI token is disabled by default due to
                            usability concerns.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>OS CERT</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>For PKI token only and PKI token is disabled by default due to
                            usability concerns.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>PKI Token</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>PKI token is disabled by default due to usability
                            concerns.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>Driver level caching</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>Driver level caching is disabled by default due to complexity in
                            setup.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>Tokenless Authz</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>Tokenless authorization with X.509 SSL client
                            certificate.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>TOTP Authentication</stentry>
                        <stentry>User</stentry>
                        <stentry>Not fully baked. Has not been battle-tested.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                    <strow>
                        <stentry>TBD</stentry>
                        <stentry>is_admin_project</stentry>
                        <stentry>Admin</stentry>
                        <stentry>No integration with the services.</stentry>
                    </strow>
                </simpletable>
            </p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
