<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd" >
<topic id="monasca_agent">
    <title>Monasca Agent</title>
    <body>
        <p>The Monasca agent (monasca-agent) collects information about your cloud using the
            installed plugins. The plugins are written in Python, and determine the monitoring
            metrics for your system, as well as the interval for collection. The default collection
            interval is 30 seconds, and HPE strongly recommends not changing this default value.</p>
        <p>The following two types of custom plugins can be added to your cloud.<ul
                id="ul_zrs_qrk_px">
                <li><b>Detection Plugin</b>. Determines whether the monasca-agent has the ability to
                    monitor the specified component or service on a host. If successful, this type
                    of plugin configures an associated <b>check plugin</b> by creating a YAML
                    configuration file.</li>
                <li><b>Check Plugin</b>. Specifies the metrics to be monitored, using the
                    configuration file created by the detection plugin.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p/>
        <p>Monasca-agent is installed on every server in your cloud, and provides plugins that
            monitor the following.</p>
        <ul id="ul_dr5_nsk_px">
            <li>System metrics relating to CPU, memory, disks, host availability, etc.</li>
            <li>Process health metrics (process, http_check)</li>
            <li><keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>-specific component metrics, such as apache, mysql, rabbitmq,
                kafka, vertica, etc.</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Monasca is pre-configured with default check plugins and associated detection plugins.
            The default plugins can be reconfigured to monitor third-party components, and often
            only require small adjustments to adapt them to this purpose. Find a list of the default
            plugins here: <xref
                href="https://github.com/openstack/monasca-agent/blob/master/docs/Plugins.md#detection-plugins"
                format="html" scope="external"
                >https://github.com/openstack/monasca-agent/blob/master/docs/Plugins.md#detection-plugins</xref></p>
        <p>Often, a single check plugin will be used to monitor multiple services. For example, many
            services use the <codeph>http_check.py</codeph> detection plugin to detect the up/down
            status of a service endpoint. Often the <codeph>process.py</codeph> check plugin, which
            provides process monitoring metrics, is used as a basis for a custom process detection
            plugin.</p>
        <p>Find more information about the Monasca agent in your lifecycle manager's
                <codeph>/openstack/monasca-agent/docs</codeph> directory. Further documentation can
            be found in the following locations</p>
        <ul id="ul_pxj_pvk_px">
            <li>Monasca agent overview: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/openstack/monasca-agent/blob/master/docs/Agent.md"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://github.com/openstack/monasca-agent/blob/master/docs/Agent.md</xref></li>
            <li>Information on existing plugins: <xref
                    href="https://github.com/openstack/monasca-agent/blob/master/docs/Plugins.md"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >https://github.com/openstack/monasca-agent/blob/master/docs/Plugins.md</xref></li>
            <li>
                <p>Information on plugin customizations: <xref
                        href="https://github.com/openstack/monasca-agent/blob/master/docs/Customizations.md"
                        format="html" scope="external"
                        >https://github.com/openstack/monasca-agent/blob/master/docs/Customizations.md</xref></p>
            </li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</topic>
