<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd" >
<topic id="monasca_integration_overview">
    <title>Monasca Monitoring Integration Overview</title>
    <body>
        <p>Monasca, the <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> monitoring service, collects information
            about your cloud's systems, and allows you to create alarm definitions based on these
            measurements. Monasca-agent is the component that collects metrics such as metric
            storage and alarm thresholding and forwards them to the monasca-api for further
            processing.</p>
        <p>With a small amount of configuration, you can use the detection and check plugins that
            are provided with your cloud to monitor integrated third-party components. In addition,
            you can write custom plugins and integrate them with the existing monitoring service. </p>
        <p>Find instructions for customizing existing plugins to monitor third-party components in
            the <b>Configuring Check Plugins</b> section. </p>
        <p>Find instructions for installing and configuring new custom plugins in the <b>Writing
                Custom Plugins</b> section.</p>
        <p>You can also use existing alarm definitions, as well as create new alarm definitions that
            relate to a custom plugin or metric. Instructions for defining new alarm definitions are
            in the <b>Configuring Alarm Definitions</b> section.</p>
        <p>You can use the Operations Console and Monasca CLI to list all of the alarms,
            alarm-definitions, and metrics that exist on your cloud.</p>
    </body>
</topic>
