<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="restart_ceph_rados">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Restarting a Ceph RADOS Gateway Node</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">Steps for restarting a RADOS Gateway
      node.</shortdesc>If you have one or more RADOS gateway nodes, these steps will assist you
    restarting.</abstract>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
    <section id="steps">
      <title>Rebooting Ceph RADOS Gateway nodes</title>
      <p>Use the following steps to rebooting a RADOS Gateway node. These steps apply for a
        dedicated cluster nodes, monitor cluster nodes or controller nodes:</p>
      <p>If you need to reboot more than one RADOS Gateway nodes, reboot one node at a time to make
        sure the service is available during reboot.<ol id="ol_rcm_dl4_tv">
          <li>Reboot the node.</li>
          <li>When available, SSH into the node, allowing an additional minimum of five minutes for
            the node to settle. </li>
          <li>Execute the following commands to start the services on the
            node:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-start.yml --limit &lt;radosgw-node></codeblock></li>
          <li>Execute the following commands to verify the status of all services on the
            node:<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts hlm-status.yml --limit &lt;radosgw-node></codeblock></li>
          <li>When above start operation has completed successfully, proceed to the next RADOS
            Gateway node. <note>Do not begin the reboot procedure for the next RADOS Gateway node
              until the reboot of the previous RADOS Gateway node has been completed successfully,
              that is, after the <codeph>verb_hosts hlm-status.yml</codeph> playbook has completed
              without error.</note></li>
        </ol></p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
