<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="reboot_computenode">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Rebooting a Compute Node</title>
  <abstract>
    <shortdesc outputclass="hdphidden">If all you need to do is reboot a Compute node, the following
      steps can be used.</shortdesc>
  </abstract>
  <body>
    <section>
      <p>If all you need to do is reboot a Compute node, the following steps can be used.</p>
      <p>You can choose to live migrate all Compute instances off the node prior to the reboot. Any
        instances that remain will be restarted when the node is rebooted.  This playbook will
        ensure that all services on the Compute node are restarted properly.</p>
      <ol id="ol_zjg_nqk_rx">
        <li>Log in to the lifeycle manager.</li>
        <li>Reboot the Compute node(s) with the following playbook. <p>You can specify either single
            or multiple Compute nodes, or an entire region, using the <codeph>--limit</codeph>
            switch. If you have multiple regions in your environment, you can specify the region
            name to reboot all of the nodes in that region.</p>An optional reboot wait time can also
          be specified. If no reboot wait time is specified it will default to 300
            seconds.<codeblock>cd ~/scratch/ansible/next/hos/ansible
ansible-playbook -i hosts/verb_hosts nova-compute-reboot.yml --limit [compute_node_or_list] [-e nova_reboot_wait_timeout=(seconds)]</codeblock><note>If
            the Compute node fails to reboot, you should troubleshoot this issue separately as this
            playbook will not attempt to recover after a failed reboot.</note></li>
      </ol>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
