<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configobj_configurationdata">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Configuration Data</title>
    <body><!--not tested-->
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        
        <p>Configuration data allows values to be passed into the model to be used in the 
            context of a specific control plane or cluster.   
            The content and format of the data is service specific.</p>
        
<codeblock>
---
  product:
    version: 2

  configuration-data:
    - name:  NEUTRON-CONFIG-CP1
      services:
        - neutron
      data:
        neutron_provider_networks:
        - name: OCTAVIA-MGMT-NET
          provider:
            - network_type: vlan
              physical_network: physnet1
              segmentation_id: 106
          cidr: 172.30.1.0/24
          no_gateway:  True
          enable_dhcp: True
          allocation_pools:
            - start: 172.30.1.10
              end: 172.30.1.250
          host_routes:
            # route to MANAGEMENT-NET-1
            - destination: 192.168.245.0/24
              nexthop:  172.30.1.1

        neutron_external_networks:
        - name: ext-net
          cidr: 172.31.0.0/24
          gateway: 172.31.0.1
          provider:
            - network_type: vlan
              physical_network: physnet1
              segmentation_id: 107
          allocation_pools:
            - start: 172.31.0.2
              end: 172.31.0.254

      network-tags:
        - network-group: MANAGEMENT
          tags:
            - neutron.networks.vxlan
            - neutron.networks.vlan:
                provider-physical-network: physnet1
        - network-group: EXTERNAL-VM
          tags:
            - neutron.l3_agent.external_network_bridge

</codeblock>        
        
        
        <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_configurationdata">
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Key</entry>
                        <entry>Value Description</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>name</entry>
                        <entry>An administrator-defined name for the set of configuration data.</entry>
                    </row>        
                    <row>
                        <entry>services</entry>
                        <entry>A list of services that the data applies to.  Note that these are service names 
                            (e.g. <codeph>neutron</codeph>, <codeph>octavia</codeph>, etc) not service-component names 
                            (<codeph>neutron-server</codeph>, <codeph>octavia-api</codeph>, etc).</entry>
                    </row>                          
                    <row>
                        <entry>data</entry>
                        <entry>A service specific data structure (see below). </entry>
                    </row>   
                    
                    <row>
                        <entry>network-tags (optional, Neutron-only)</entry>
                        <entry>A list of network tags. Tags provide the linkage between the physical network configuration 
                            and the Neutron network configuration.
                            
                           <p>Starting in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, network tags may be defined as part of a 
                               Neutron <codeph>configuration-data</codeph> object rather than as part of a <codeph>network-group</codeph> object.</p>                         
                        </entry>
                    </row>                      
                    
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
                
             
        
    </body>
</topic>
