<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="configobj_memorymodels">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/><!-- Configuration Object -  -->Memory Models</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
  
    <p>The memory-models configuration object describes details of the optional configuration of Huge Pages.
      
      <ph audience="INTERNAL"> It also describes the amount of memory to be allocated for virtual machine servers.</ph>
      
      </p>
    <p>
      The memory-model allows the number of pages of a particular size to be configured at the server level or at the numa-node level.
      
      </p>
    
    <p>The following example would configure :    </p>
    
      <ul>
        <li>five 2MB pages in each of numa nodes 0 and 1</li>
        <li>three 1GB pages (distributed across all numa nodes)</li>
        <li>six 2MB pages (distributed across all numa nodes)</li>
      </ul>


   
<codeblock>
  memory-models:
    - name: COMPUTE-MEMORY-NUMA
      default-huge-page-size: 2M
      huge-pages:
        - size: 2M
          count: 5
          numa-node: 0
        - size: 2M
          count: 5
          numa-node: 1
        - size: 1G
          count: 3
        - size: 2M
          count: 6 
<ph audience="INTERNAL">    - name: VIRTUAL-CONTROLLER-MEMORY
      vm-size:
        ram: 6G
</ph>
</codeblock>
    
    
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="memory_models">
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Key</entry>
            <entry>Value Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>name</entry>
            <entry>The name of the memory-model that is referenced from one or more
              server-roles.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>default-huge-page-size
              (optional)
            </entry>
            <entry>The default page size that will be used is specified when allocating huge pages.
              <p>If not specified, the default is set by the operating system.</p></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>huge-pages</entry>
            <entry>A list of huge page definitions (see below).</entry>
          </row>          
          <row audience="INTERNAL">
            <entry>vm-size (optional)</entry>
            <entry>Memory sizing information for virtual machine servers.</entry>
          </row>            
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
 
 

    
  </body>
</topic>
