<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><!--Edit status: not edited-->
<section id="HP2.0LBaaS">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Using Load Balancing as a Service
    (LBaaS)</title>
    
    
    <para><emphasis role="bold">
         <phrase/> LBaaS Configuration</emphasis></para>

    <para>Load Balancing as a Service (LBaaS) is an advanced networking service that allows load
      balancing of multi-node environments. It provides the ability to spread requests across
      multiple servers thereby reducing the load on any single server. The following examples depict
      usage of the various OpenStack Command Line Interfaces (CLI). The Load Balancer v1 API is also
      accessible via the Horizon web interface if the v1 API is enabled. The Load Balancer v2 API
      does not currently have a representative Horizon web interface. The v2 API is targeted to have
      a Horizon web interface in a future <phrase/> release. This document
      describes the configuration for LBaaS v1 and v2. </para>


    <para>You can create TLS enabled Load Balancers in <phrase/> by following
      the steps labeled for TLS Load Balancers. You cannot enable TLS with v1 Load Balancers, only
      v2 Load Balancers can be enabled with TLS.</para>
<important>
         <para>When Barbican isn't installed
        by default, you have to manually install Barbican and redeploy neutron.</para>
      </important>


    <para><phrase/> can support either LBaaS v1 or LBaaS v2 to allow for wide
      ranging customer requirements. Check with your administrator for the version that is installed
      before starting your configuration. </para>



    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Configuration</bridgehead>
      <para><phrase/> LBaaS Configuration</para>

   

    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">More Information</bridgehead>
      <para>For more information on the neutron command-line interface (CLI) and load balancing, see
        the OpenStack networking command-line client reference: <ulink url="http://docs.openstack.org/cli-reference/content/neutronclient_commands.html"/></para>

   
  </section>
