<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><section id="vsOpenStack">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Enhancements to OpenStack</title>
    
    <formalpara>
      <title>How does <phrase/> differ from a pure OpenStack cloud
        implementation?</title>
      <para><phrase/></para>

   </formalpara>
    <para>During installation of <phrase/>, the core OpenStack services, such as
      compute, networking, orchestration, storage, identity, etc. are installed automatically, and
      by default. These services are integrated and work together out of the box. Rather than
      configuring each service individually and configuring their interaction, the <phrase/> lifecycle manager, a collection of Ansible playbooks, script together
      those integrations for you. The playbooks read YAML files that describe your cloud
      configuration in human-readable text which you have entered or edited, and builds your cloud
      based on those configuration settings. In addition, these files, collectively referred to as
        <xref linkend="input_model"/> are pre-populated as your starting point for a
      variety of cloud configurations.</para>

    <para><phrase/> lifecyle manager responsibilities go beyond installation and
      configuration, however. Ongoing management and reconfiguration, in many instances, can be
      achieved using the lifecycle manager rather than the OpenStack APIs as the Ansible playbooks
      themselves use the OpenStack APIs and abstract the tasks for you. Beginning with version 2.0,
      each release adds additional automation to management tasks.</para>

    <para>Granular monitoring of processes and services is integrated into <phrase/> as well using Monasca integration.</para>

    <para>Additionally, the following security features are built into <phrase/>: </para>

   <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para>Data at rest encryption capabilities including encrypted storage of passwords and
            sensitive data</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Reduction of surface vulnerabilities based on extensive years of experience running
            OpenStack in the HPE Public Cloud</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Centralized log management capabilities</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Threat monitoring with HPE ArcSight integration</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Security rules that close all unused ports </para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>AppArmor to provide an additional layer of automated protection against VM
            breakouts</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Role-based access control to control who and what can access services and
            resources</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Auditing of inter-service activities</para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Barbican key management </para>
         </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Web single sign-on</para>
         </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
<para>Finally some of the management features include:</para>

   <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
         <para>Active health monitoring of the end-to-end cloud infrastructure </para>

      </listitem>
        <listitem>
         <para>Centralized logging all alerts and alarms for event correlation to root-cause analysis </para>

      </listitem>
        <listitem>
         <para>Telemetry / usage metering and internal usage reporting capabilities for
          showback/chargeback/and billing systems </para>

      </listitem>
        <listitem>
         <para>Identity management of Active Directory and other LDAP providers</para>

      </listitem>
        <listitem>
         <para>An integrated Operations Console for easy motoring and alarm creation</para>

      </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
  </section>
