<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.5//EN" "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.5/docbookx.dtd" [ <!ENTITY % entities SYSTEM "entities.xml"> %entities; ]><section id="encryption_ephemeral">
   <title>
      <phrase/>Encryption of Ephemeral Volumes</title>
    <para>By default, ephemeral volumes are not encrypted. If you wish to enable this feature, you
      should use the following steps.</para>


    <note>
      <para>For more details about this feature, see <ulink url="http://specs.openstack.org/openstack/nova-specs/specs/juno/approved/lvm-ephemeral-storage-encryption.html">Ephemeral storage encryption for LVM backend</ulink>.</para>


   </note>
    
      <bridgehead renderas="sect4">Enabling ephemeral volume encryption</bridgehead>
      <para>Before deploying the Compute nodes you will need to change the disk configuration to create
        a new <literal>volume-group</literal> which will be used for your ephemeral disks. To do this,
        following these steps:</para>


      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Log in to the lifecycle manager.</para>


         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Add details about the volume-group you will be using for your encrypted volumes. You
          have two options for this, you can either create a new volume-group or add the details for
          an already existing volume-group. </para>


            <orderedlist id="ol_zv5_hf3_vx">
                  <listitem>
                     <para>To create a new volume-group, add the following lines to your Compute disk
                configuration file.</para>

                     <para>The location of the Compute disk configuration file is:
                  </para>
<screen>~/helion/my_cloud/definition/data/disks_compute.yml</screen>

                     <screen>name: vg-comp
       physical-volumes:
         - /dev/sdb</screen>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                     <para>To utilize an existing volume-group you can add the following lines to your
                  <literal>nova.conf</literal> file, using the name of your volume-group:
                </para>

                     <screen>[libvirt] 
images_type = lvm 
images_volume_group = &lt;volume_group_name&gt; </screen>
                  </listitem>
               </orderedlist>
<note>
                  <para>The requirement here is to have free space available on a
                <literal>volume-group</literal>. The correct disk to use and the name for the volume
              group will depend on your environment's needs.</para>

               </note>

         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Modify the <literal>nova.conf</literal> file for the Compute and API nodes. Verify that
          the following entries exist, if they do not then add them and then restart the
            <literal>nova-compute</literal> and <literal>nova-api</literal>
            services:</para>


            <screen>[libvirt]
images_type = lvm
images_volume_group = vg-comp

[ephemeral_storage_encryption]
key_size = 256            
cipher = aes-xts-plain64 
enabled = True

[keymgr]
api_class = nova.keymgr.barbican.BarbicanKeyManager

[barbican] 
endpoint_template = https://192.168.245.9:9311/v1</screen>
            <para>To
            restart the services, use the following
            commands:</para>

<screen>sudo systemctl restart nova-compute
sudo systemctl restart nova-api</screen>

         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Assign the role in Keystone using the CLI tool.  Using the openstack client you can
          assign the user <literal>key-manager:creator</literal> role for the project.</para>


         </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Boot an instance with an ephermal disk and verify that the disk is encrypted. Once the
          instance is active it is possible to check on the Compute node if the ephermal disk is
            encrypted.</para>


            <para>SSH into the Compute node then run the following commands:
            </para>

<screen>sudo dmsetup status
cryptsetup -v status &lt;name_of_ephemeral_disk&gt;</screen>

         </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
   
  </section>
