<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="newsecurity">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Security Features Overview</title>
  <body>
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>

    <section id="overview"><title>Security features in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/></title>
      <p>Enterprises need protection against security breaches, insider threats, and operational
        issues that increases the risk of losing sensitive data. By combining technologies from both
        OpenStack services and HPE Security – Data Security products, <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> provides capabilities that help you to protect your data at rest
        and in transit, enable centralized key management, and achieve compliance with
        PCI-DSS.</p><p>In <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, a number of security enhancements are
        available to strengthen and harden your cloud deployment. Below is an overview of some of
        the features and a brief description. Follow the links to the relevant topics for
        instructions on setup, configuration, and use of these security features.</p>
    </section>
    <section id="rbac">
      <title>Role-based access control (RBAC) support for Neutron networks </title>The RBAC feature
      in this release enables better security as administrators can now control who has access to
      specific networks, which represents a significant improvement over the previous all-or-nothing
      approach to shared networks. This is beneficial from a security standpoint as some projects
      (or tenants) have stricter security policies. For example, a finance department must run
      PCI-compliant workloads in isolation from other departments, and thus cannot share their
      Neutron network resources with other departments. RBAC enables cloud admins to create granular
      security policies for sharing neutron resources with one or more tenants or projects, using
      the standard CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) model.
      <!--More information can be found in <xref
        href="../networking/rbac.dita#neutron_rbac"/>-->
    </section>
    
    <section id="adminRoles">
      <title>Separate service administrator role</title>Each OpenStack service account now has an
      optional role available to restrict the OpenStack functions each account can access. This
      feature enables cloud administrators to apply service-specific role-based, admin-level access
      to a specific UserID, with the ability to audit admin-level actions. This functionality
      provides better security by not only providing full visibility into admin-level activities via
      audit logs, but also by fulfilling compliance requirements such as PCI DSS v3.1 standards.
      <!--More information is available in the document <xref
        href="admin_role_segregation.dita#roleSegregation"/>--></section>
    <section id="interservicePasswords">
      <title>Inter-service password enhancements</title>You can conveniently change the
      inter-service passwords used for authenticating communications between services in your
        <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> deployment, promoting better compliance with your organization’s
      security policies. The inter-service passwords that can be changed include (but are not
      limited to) Keystone, MySQL, RabbitMQ, HLM cluster, Monasca and Barbican. Admins can implement
      this feature by running the configuration processor to generate new passwords followed by
      Ansible playbook command to change the credentials. </section>
    <section id="red_hat">
      <title>SELinux for Red Hat KVM </title>SELinux (also known as Security-Enhanced Linux)
      provides enhanced security at the hypervisor layer on the compute nodes by mitigating the risk
      of hypervisor attacks and strongly isolating the guest VMs. It enforces mandatory access
      control security policies for the compute nodes (svirt process) running Red Hat KVM, thus
      reducing the risk of a hypervisor breakout. By providing a locked down profile for the
      KVM/QEMU processes that the guest VMs run in, it strongly isolates the guest VMs. With such
      strong security measures as SELinux, malicious attacks on VMs and the underlying host OS are
      much less possible. Note that SELinux provides enhanced security for instances managed by
      libvirt. It does not, however, provide enhanced security for OpenStack processes.</section>
    <section id="in_transit"><title>Data in transit protection via configurable TLS for internal API
        endpoints</title>
      <p id="tls_internal">With <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>, data transmission between
        internal API endpoints is encrypted using TLS v 1.2 to protect sensitive data against
        unauthorized disclosure and modification (spoofing and tampering attacks). Additionally, you
        can configure TLS using your own certificates, from a Certificate Authority of your choice,
        providing deployment flexibility.
        <!--See <xref href="tls.dita#configure_tls"/> for more
      information.--></p></section>
    <section id="dataSecurity"><title>Data at rest protection using project-based encryption</title>
      <p>You can encrypt sensitive data-at-rest on per tenant or project basis, while storing
        and managing keys externally and centrally using HPE ESKM. This capability requires the
        OpenStack Barbican API and OASIS KMIP (Key Management Interoperability Protocol) plug-ins
        for integration and supports encryption of Cinder block storage with <keyword
          keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/>.
        <!--For more
        information see <xref href="dar.dita#topic_rqy_dfm_gv"/>.--></p></section>
    <section id="cadf"><title>CADF-compliant security audit logs</title>Security audit logs for
      critical services such as Keystone, Nova, Cinder, Glance, Heat, Neutron, Barbican etc. are
      available in a standard CADF (Cloud Audit Data Federation) format. These logs contain
      information on events such as unauthorized logins, admin level access, unsuccessful login
      attempts, and anomalous deletion of VMs etc. that are critical from a security threat
      monitoring standpoint. Audit logs are very useful as a tool for risk mitigation, and
      identifying suspicious or anomalous activity, as well as fulfilling compliance requirements.
      <!--See <xref
        href="middleware_auditing.dita#auditing"/> for more information.--></section>
    <section id="pciReady">
      <title>PCI readiness</title>
      <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> is PCI (Payment Card Industry) ready, enabling retail
      and finance industries that are subject to PCI compliance, to become certified. The readiness
      is based on lab assessment and verification conducted by an external audit firm, against the
      more than 250 security requirements specified in the PCI DSS (Data Security Standard) v3.1
      standards document. Since <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> satisfies the requirements that fall
      under vendor responsibility, customers can proceed with their certification efforts with full
      confidence and peace of mind that <keyword keyref="kw-hos"/> will not be a blocker.</section>

  </body>
</topic>
