<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: ready for edit (Nancy)-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_rmq_j1v_4t">
  <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Refining Access Control with AppArmor</title>
  <body><!--not tested-->
    <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
   <section id="intro">
      <p> AppArmor is a Mandatory Access Control (MAC) system as opposed to a discretionary access
        control system. It is a kernel-level security module for Linux that controls access to
        low-level resources based on rights granted via policies to a program rather than to a user
        role. It enforces rules at the lowest software layer&#151;the kernel level&#151;preventing
        software from circumventing resource restrictions that reside at levels above the kernel.
        With AppArmor, the final gatekeeper is closest to the hardware.</p>
      <p>Controlling resource access per application versus per user role allows you to enforce
        rules based on specifically what a program can do versus trying to create user roles that
        are broad enough yet specific enough to apply to a group of users. In addition, it prevents
        the trap of having to predict all possible vulnerabilities in order to be secure.</p>
      <p>AppArmor uses a hybrid of whitelisting and blacklisting rules, and its security policies
        are/can be cascading, permitting inheritance from different or more general policies. Policies
        are enforced on a per-process basis.</p>
      <p>AppArmor also lets you tie a process to a CPU core if you want, and set process
        priority.</p>
      <p> AppArmor profiles are loaded into the kernel, typically on boot. They can run in either
        enforcement or complain modes. In enforcement mode, the policy is enforced and policy
        violation attempts are reported. In complain mode, policy violation attempts are reported but
        not prevented. </p>
    </section>
    
    <section id="apparmor_helion"><title>AppArmor in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/></title>
      <p> AppArmor in <keyword keyref="kw-hos-phrase"/> is installed and enabled on the KVM compute nodes by
        default. It runs in enforce mode. It enforces mandatory access control policies for the
        libvirt process. Customers can run 'systemctl status apparmor' command on the compute nodes
        to check that the service is active.</p> In this implementation it is designed to mitigate
      three threat scenarios: <ul>
        <li>Hypervisor breakout followed by compromise of hosting qemu/kvm process. </li>
        <li>Malicious manipulation of qemu APIs via Nova compute. </li>
        <li>Malicious manipulation of libvirt APIs via Nova compute.</li>
      </ul> The AppArmor profiles here: <ul>
        <li> Use the sVirt mechanism to deliver a very locked down profile for KVM / QEMU processes
          that guests run under. This enforces strict isolation of the guest VMs, which is
          significantly more useful than just securing libvirt. </li>
        <li>Contains important improvements over stock Debian profiles: including<ul>
            <li>Preventing libvirt from writing to any system config. </li>
            <li>Preventing Libivirt from accessing any hardware and device nodes that are not
              required for Helion-based solutions. While the stock AppArmor profiles are more
              permissive, as libvirt supports a larger set of functionality than is exposed via Nova
              compute, the profiles included here only allow access to features exposed through
              Nova. </li>
          </ul></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
