<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Edit status: not edited-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="cpinfofiles">
    <title><ph conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/product-title"/>Configuration Processor Information Files</title>
    <body><!--not tested-->
        <p conkeyref="HOS-conrefs/applies-to"/>
        


    <p>In addition to producing all of the data needed to deploy and configure the cloud, the
        configuration processor also creates a number of information files that provide details of
        the resulting configuration.</p>
    <p>These files can be found in <codeph>~/helion/my_cloud/info</codeph> after the first
        configuration processor run. This directory is also rebuilt each time the Configuration
        Processor is run.</p>
    <p>Most of the files are in YAML format, allowing them to be used in further automation tasks
        if required.</p>
    <table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table">
        <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
            <thead>
                <row>
                    <entry>File</entry>
                    <entry>Provides details of</entry>
                </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="address_info_yml">address_info.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>IP address assignments on each network</entry>
                </row>
                
                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="firewall_info_yml">firewall_info.yml</xref> </entry>
                    <entry>All ports that are open on each network by the firewall configuration. Can be
                        used if you want to configure an additional firewall in front of the API network,
                        for example.</entry>
                </row>                
                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="net_info_yml">net_info.yml</xref> </entry>
                    <entry>IP addresses assigned to services. For example, this provides the data needed
                        to complete the configuration of VSA clusters.</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="route_info_yml">route_info.yml</xref> </entry>
                    <entry>Routes that need to be configured between networks. </entry>
                </row>                
                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="server_info_yml">server_info.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>How servers have been allocated, including their network configuration. Allows
                        details of a server to be found from its ID</entry>
                </row>


                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="service_info_yml">service_info.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>Details of where components of each service are deployed</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="control_plane_topology_yml">control_plane_topoloy.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>Details the structure of the cloud from the perspective of each control-plane</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="network_topology_yml">network_topology.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>Details the structure of the cloud from the perspective of each control-plane</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="region_topology_yml">region_topoloy.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>Details the structure of the cloud from the perspective of each region</entry>
                </row>

                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="service_topology_yml">service_topology.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>Details the structure of the cloud from the perspective of each service</entry>
                </row>



                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="private_data_metadata_yml">private_data_metadata.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>Details the secrets that are generated by the configuration processor – the names of 
                        the secrets, along with the service(s) that use each secret and a list of the clusters on
                        which the service that consumes the secret is deployed</entry>
                </row>               
                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="password_change_yml">password_change.yml</xref></entry>
                    <entry>Details the secrets that have been changed by the configuration processor – 
                        information for each secret is the same as for <codeph>private_data_metadata.yml</codeph></entry>
                </row>
                
                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="explain_txt">explain.txt</xref> </entry>
                    <entry>An explanation of the decisions the configuration processor has made when
                        allocating servers and networks</entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry><xref keyref="clouddiagram_txt">CloudDiagram.txt</xref></entry>
                    <entry>A pictorial representation of the cloud</entry>
                </row>

            </tbody>
        </tgroup>
    </table>
    <p>The examples are taken from the <codeph>entry-scale-kvm-vsa</codeph> example configuration.</p>

    </body>
</topic>

